But a man named Anani′as with his wife Sapphi′ra sold a piece of property,
and with his wife’s knowledge he kept back some of the proceeds, and brought only a part and laid it at the apostles’ feet.
But Peter said, “Anani′as, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back part of the proceeds of the land?
While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? How is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God.”
When Anani′as heard these words, he fell down and died. And great fear came upon all who heard of it.
The young men rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him.
After an interval of about three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened.
And Peter said to her, “Tell me whether you sold the land for so much.” And she said, “Yes, for so much.”
But Peter said to her, “How is it that you have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? Hark, the feet of those that have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.”
Immediately she fell down at his feet and died. When the young men came in they found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband.
And great fear came upon the whole church, and upon all who heard of these things.
Now many signs and wonders were done among the people by the hands of the apostles. And they were all together in Solomon’s Portico.
None of the rest dared join them, but the people held them in high honor.
And more than ever believers were added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women,
so that they even carried out the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and pallets, that as Peter came by at least his shadow might fall on some of them.
The people also gathered from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all healed.
But the high priest rose up and all who were with him, that is, the party of the Sad′ducees, and filled with jealousy
they arrested the apostles and put them in the common prison.
But at night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out and said,
“Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this Life.”
And when they heard this, they entered the temple at daybreak and taught.Now the high priest came and those who were with him and called together the council and all the senate of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
But when the officers came, they did not find them in the prison, and they returned and reported,
“We found the prison securely locked and the sentries standing at the doors, but when we opened it we found no one inside.”
Now when the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were much perplexed about them, wondering what this would come to.
And some one came and told them, “The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.”
Then the captain with the officers went and brought them, but without violence, for they were afraid of being stoned by the people.
And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest questioned them,
saying, “We strictly charged you not to teach in this name, yet here you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and you intend to bring this man’s blood upon us.”
But Peter and the apostles answered, “We must obey God rather than men.
The God of our fathers raised Jesus whom you killed by hanging him on a tree.
God exalted him at his right hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those who obey him.”
When they heard this they were enraged and wanted to kill them.
But a Pharisee in the council named Gama′li-el, a teacher of the law, held in honor by all the people, stood up and ordered the men to be put outside for a while.
And he said to them, “Men of Israel, take care what you do with these men.
For before these days Theu′das arose, giving himself out to be somebody, and a number of men, about four hundred, joined him; but he was slain and all who followed him were dispersed and came to nothing.
After him Judas the Galilean arose in the days of the census and drew away some of the people after him; he also perished, and all who followed him were scattered.
So in the present case I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone; for if this plan or this undertaking is of men, it will fail;
but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You might even be found opposing God!”
So they took his advice, and when they had called in the apostles, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name.
And every day in the temple and at home they did not cease teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ.