Therefore let us go on toward perfection, leaving behind the basic teaching about Christ and not laying again the foundation: repentance from dead works and faith toward God,
instruction about baptisms and laying on of hands, resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment.
And we will do this, if God permits.
For it is impossible to restore again to repentance those who have once been enlightened and have tasted the heavenly gift and have shared in the Holy Spirit
and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come
and then have fallen away, since they are crucifying again the Son of God to their own harm and are holding him up to contempt.
Ground that drinks up the rain falling on it repeatedly and that produces a crop useful to those for whom it is cultivated receives a blessing from God.
But if it produces thorns and thistles, it is worthless and on the verge of being cursed; its end is to be burned over.
Even though we speak in this way, beloved, we are confident of better things in your case, things that belong to salvation.
For God is not unjust; he will not overlook your work and the love that you showed for his sake in serving the saints, as you still do.
And we want each one of you to show the same diligence so as to realize the full assurance of hope to the very end,
so that you may not become sluggish but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
When God made a promise to Abraham, because he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself,
saying, “I will surely bless you and multiply you.”
And thus Abraham, having patiently endured, obtained the promise.
Humans, of course, swear by someone greater than themselves, and an oath given as confirmation puts an end to all dispute among them.
In the same way, when God desired to show even more clearly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeable character of his purpose, he guaranteed it by an oath,
so that through two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible that God would prove false, we who have taken refuge might be strongly encouraged to seize the hope set before us.
We have this hope, a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters the inner shrine behind the curtain,
where Jesus, a forerunner on our behalf, has entered, having become a high priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.