And the Lord said to Moses,
“Say to all the congregation of the people of Israel, You shall be holy; for I the Lord your God am holy.
Every one of you shall revere his mother and his father, and you shall keep my sabbaths: I am the Lord your God.
Do not turn to idols or make for yourselves molten gods: I am the Lord your God.
“When you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to the Lord, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted.
It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, or on the morrow; and anything left over until the third day shall be burned with fire.
If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it will not be accepted,
and every one who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned a holy thing of the Lord; and that person shall be cut off from his people.
“When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field to its very border, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest.
And you shall not strip your vineyard bare, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the Lord your God.
“You shall not steal, nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another.
And you shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God: I am the Lord.
“You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him. The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
You shall not curse the deaf or put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God: I am the Lord.
“You shall do no injustice in judgment; you shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the great, but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor.
You shall not go up and down as a slanderer among your people, and you shall not stand forth against the life of your neighbor: I am the Lord.
“You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall reason with your neighbor, lest you bear sin because of him.
You shall not take vengeance or bear any grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the Lord.
“You shall keep my statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with a different kind; you shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed; nor shall there come upon you a garment of cloth made of two kinds of stuff.
“If a man lies carnally with a woman who is a slave, betrothed to another man and not yet ransomed or given her freedom, an inquiry shall be held. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free;
but he shall bring a guilt offering for himself to the Lord, to the door of the tent of meeting, a ram for a guilt offering.
And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering before the Lord for his sin which he has committed; and the sin which he has committed shall be forgiven him.
“When you come into the land and plant all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as forbidden; three years it shall be forbidden to you, it must not be eaten.
And in the fourth year all their fruit shall be holy, an offering of praise to the Lord.
But in the fifth year you may eat of their fruit, that they may yield more richly for you: I am the Lord your God.
“You shall not eat any flesh with the blood in it. You shall not practice augury or witchcraft.
You shall not round off the hair on you temples or mar the edges of your beard.
You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh on account of the dead or tattoo any marks upon you: I am the Lord.
“Do not profane your daughter by making her a harlot, lest the land fall into harlotry and the land become full of wickedness.
You shall keep my sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the Lord.
“Do not turn to mediums or wizards; do not seek them out, to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God.
“You shall rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of an old man, and you shall fear your God: I am the Lord.
“When a stranger sojourns with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
The stranger who sojourns with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.
“You shall do no wrong in judgment, in measures of length or weight or quantity.
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin: I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
And you shall observe all my statutes and all my ordinances, and do them: I am the Lord.”