“When any one brings a cereal offering as an offering to the Lord, his offering shall be of fine flour; he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense on it,
and bring it to Aaron’s sons the priests. And he shall take from it a handful of the fine flour and oil, with all of its frankincense; and the priest shall burn this as its memorial portion upon the altar, an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the Lord.
And what is left of the cereal offering shall be for Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the offerings by fire to the Lord.
“When you bring a cereal offering baked in the oven as an offering, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mixed with oil, or unleavened wafers spread with oil.
And if your offering is a cereal offering baked on a griddle, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mixed with oil;
you shall break it in pieces, and pour oil on it; it is a cereal offering.
And if your offering is a cereal offering cooked in a pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
And you shall bring the cereal offering that is made of these things to the Lord; and when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar.
And the priest shall take from the cereal offering its memorial portion and burn this on the altar, an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the Lord.
And what is left of the cereal offering shall be for Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the offerings by fire to the Lord.
“No cereal offering which you bring to the Lord shall be made with leaven; for you shall burn no leaven nor any honey as an offering by fire to the Lord.
As an offering of first fruits you may bring them to the Lord, but they shall not be offered on the altar for a pleasing odor.
You shall season all your cereal offerings with salt; you shall not let the salt of the covenant with your God be lacking from your cereal offering; with all your offerings you shall offer salt.
“If you offer a cereal offering of first fruits to the Lord, you shall offer for the cereal offering of your first fruits crushed new grain from fresh ears, parched with fire.
And you shall put oil upon it, and lay frankincense on it; it is a cereal offering.
And the priest shall burn as its memorial portion part of the crushed grain and of the oil with all of its frankincense; it is an offering by fire to the Lord.