The Lord said to Moses,
“Say to the people of Israel, Any man of the people of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, who gives any of his children to Molech shall be put to death; the people of the land shall stone him with stones.
I myself will set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people, because he has given one of his children to Molech, defiling my sanctuary and profaning my holy name.
And if the people of the land do at all hide their eyes from that man, when he gives one of his children to Molech, and do not put him to death,
then I will set my face against that man and against his family, and will cut them off from among their people, him and all who follow him in playing the harlot after Molech.
“If a person turns to mediums and wizards, playing the harlot after them, I will set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people.
Consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am the Lord your God.
Keep my statutes, and do them; I am the Lord who sanctify you.
For every one who curses his father or his mother shall be put to death; he has cursed his father or his mother, his blood is upon him.
“If a man commits adultery with the wife of his neighbor, both the adulterer and the adulteress shall be put to death.
The man who lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness; both of them shall be put to death, their blood is upon them.
If a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall be put to death; they have committed incest, their blood is upon them.
If a man lies with a male as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination; they shall be put to death, their blood is upon them.
If a man takes a wife and her mother also, it is wickedness; they shall be burned with fire, both he and they, that there may be no wickedness among you.
If a man lies with a beast, he shall be put to death; and you shall kill the beast.
If a woman approaches any beast and lies with it, you shall kill the woman and the beast; they shall be put to death, their blood is upon them.
“If a man takes his sister, a daughter of his father or a daughter of his mother, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a shameful thing, and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people; he has uncovered his sister’s nakedness, he shall bear his iniquity.
If a man lies with a woman having her sickness, and uncovers her nakedness, he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood; both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister or of your father’s sister, for that is to make naked one’s near kin; they shall bear their iniquity.
If a man lies with his uncle’s wife, he has uncovered his uncle’s nakedness; they shall bear their sin, they shall die childless.
If a man takes his brother’s wife, it is impurity; he has uncovered his brother’s nakedness, they shall be childless.
“You shall therefore keep all my statutes and all my ordinances, and do them; that the land where I am bringing you to dwell may not vomit you out.
And you shall not walk in the customs of the nation which I am casting out before you; for they did all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.
But I have said to you, ‘You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess, a land flowing with milk and honey.’ I am the Lord your God, who have separated you from the peoples.
You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean beast and the unclean, and between the unclean bird and the clean; you shall not make yourselves abominable by beast or by bird or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have set apart for you to hold unclean.
You shall be holy to me; for I the Lord am holy, and have separated you from the peoples, that you should be mine.
“A man or a woman who is a medium or a wizard shall be put to death; they shall be stoned with stones, their blood shall be upon them.”