“If a man’s offering is a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offers an animal from the herd, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the Lord.
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting; and Aaron’s sons the priests shall throw the blood against the altar round about.
And from the sacrifice of the peace offering, as an offering by fire to the Lord, he shall offer the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails,
and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys.
Then Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt offering, which is upon the wood on the fire; it is an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the Lord.
“If his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering to the Lord is an animal from the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before the Lord,
laying his hand upon the head of his offering and killing it before the tent of meeting; and Aaron’s sons shall throw its blood against the altar round about.
Then from the sacrifice of the peace offering as an offering by fire to the Lord he shall offer its fat, the fat tail entire, taking it away close by the backbone, and the fat that covers the entrails, and all the fat that is on the entrails,
and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn it on the altar as food offered by fire to the Lord.
“If his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before the Lord,
and lay his hand upon its head, and kill it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall throw its blood against the altar round about.
Then he shall offer from it, as his offering for an offering by fire to the Lord, the fat covering the entrails, and all the fat that is on the entrails,
and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys.
And the priest shall burn them on the altar as food offered by fire for a pleasing odor. All fat is the Lord’s.
It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations, in all your dwelling places, that you eat neither fat nor blood.”