And the Lord said to Moses,
“Say to the people of Israel, If any one sins unwittingly in any of the things which the Lord has commanded not to be done, and does any one of them,
if it is the anointed priest who sins, thus bringing guilt on the people, then let him offer for the sin which he has committed a young bull without blemish to the Lord for a sin offering.
He shall bring the bull to the door of the tent of meeting before the Lord, and lay his hand on the head of the bull, and kill the bull before the Lord.
And the anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull and bring it to the tent of meeting;
and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle part of the blood seven times before the Lord in front of the veil of the sanctuary.
And the priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of fragrant incense before the Lord which is in the tent of meeting, and the rest of the blood of the bull he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering which is at the door of the tent of meeting.
And all the fat of the bull of the sin offering he shall take from it, the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails,
and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver which he shall take away with the kidneys
(just as these are taken from the ox of the sacrifice of the peace offerings), and the priest shall burn them upon the altar of burnt offering.
But the skin of the bull and all its flesh, with its head, its legs, its entrails, and its dung,
the whole bull he shall carry forth outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and shall burn it on a fire of wood; where the ashes are poured out it shall be burned.
“If the whole congregation of Israel commits a sin unwittingly and the thing is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they do any one of the things which the Lord has commanded not to be done and are guilty;
when the the sin which they have committed becomes known, the assembly shall offer a young bull for a sin offering and bring it before the tent of meeting;
and the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bull before the Lord, and the bull shall be killed before the Lord.
Then the anointed priest shall bring some of the blood of the bull to the tent of meeting,
and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it seven times before the Lord in front of the veil.
And he shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar which is in the tent of meeting before the Lord; and the rest of the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering which is at the door of the tent of meeting.
And all its fat he shall take from it and burn upon the altar.
Thus shall he do with the bull; as he did with the bull of the sin offering, so shall he do with this; and the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven.
And he shall carry forth the bull outside the camp, and burn it as he burned the first bull; it is the sin offering for the assembly.
“When a ruler sins, doing unwittingly any one of all the things which the Lord his God has commanded not to be done, and is guilty,
if the sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring as his offering a goat, a male without blemish,
and shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the Lord; it is a sin offering.
Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
And all its fat he shall burn on the altar, like the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings; so the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin, and he shall be forgiven.
“If any one of the common people sins unwittingly in doing any one of the things which the Lord has commanded not to be done, and is guilty,
when the sin which he has committed is made known to him he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has committed.
And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering, and kill the sin offering in the place of burnt offering.
And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar.
And all its fat he shall remove, as the fat is removed from the peace offerings, and the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a pleasing odor to the Lord; and the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.
“If he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring a female without blemish,
and lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and kill it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.
Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar.
And all its fat he shall remove as the fat of the lamb is removed from the sacrifice of peace offerings, and the priest shall burn it on the altar, upon the offerings by fire to the Lord; and the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin which he has committed, and he shall be forgiven.