Let all who are under the yoke of slavery regard their masters as worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and the teaching may not be defamed.
Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they are brethren; rather they must serve all the better since those who benefit by their service are believers and beloved.Teach and urge these duties.
If any one teaches otherwise and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching which accords with godliness,
he is puffed up with conceit, he knows nothing; he has a morbid craving for controversy and for disputes about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, base suspicions,
and wrangling among men who are depraved in mind and bereft of the truth, imagining that godliness is a means of gain.
There is great gain in godliness with contentment;
for we brought nothing into the world, and we cannot take anything out of the world;
but if we have food and clothing, with these we shall be content.
But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and hurtful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction.
For the love of money is the root of all evils; it is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced their hearts with many pangs.
But as for you, man of God, shun all this; aim at righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness.
Fight the good fight of the faith; take hold of the eternal life to which you were called when you made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.
In the presence of God who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus who in his testimony before Pontius Pilate made the good confession,
I charge you to keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ;
and this will be made manifest at the proper time by the blessed and only Sovereign, the King of kings and Lord of lords,
who alone has immortality and dwells in unapproachable light, whom no man has ever seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
As for the rich in this world, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on uncertain riches but on God who richly furnishes us with everything to enjoy.
They are to do good, to be rich in good deeds, liberal and generous,
thus laying up for themselves a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of the life which is life indeed.
O Timothy, guard what has been entrusted to you. Avoid the godless chatter and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge,
for by professing it some have missed the mark as regards the faith.Grace be with you.