The oracle that the prophet Habakkuk saw.
O Lord, how long shall I cry for help,    and you will not listen?Or cry to you “Violence!”    and you will not save?
Why do you make me see wrongdoing    and look at trouble?Destruction and violence are before me;    strife and contention arise.
So the law becomes slack,    and justice never prevails.The wicked surround the righteous;    therefore judgment comes forth perverted.
Look at the nations and see!    Be astonished! Be astounded!For a work is being done in your days    that you would not believe if you were told.
For I am rousing the Chaldeans,    that fierce and impetuous nation,who march through the breadth of the earth    to seize dwellings not their own.
Dread and fearsome are they;    their justice and dignity proceed from themselves.
Their horses are swifter than leopards,    more menacing than wolves at dusk;    their horses charge.Their horsemen come from far away;    they fly like an eagle swift to devour.
They all come for violence,    with faces pressing forward;    they gather captives like sand.
At kings they scoff,    and of rulers they make sport.They laugh at every fortress    and heap up earth to take it.
Then they sweep by like the wind;    they transgress and become guilty;    their own might is their god!
Are you not from of old,    O Lord my God, my Holy One?    You shall not die.O Lord, you have marked them for judgment,    and you, O Rock, have established them for punishment.
Your eyes are too pure to behold evil,    and you cannot look on wrongdoing;why do you look on the treacherous    and are silent when the wicked swallow    those more righteous than they?
You have made people like the fish of the sea,    like crawling things that have no ruler.
He brings all of them up with a hook;    he drags them out with his net;he gathers them in his seine,    so he rejoices and exults.
Therefore he sacrifices to his net    and makes offerings to his seine,for by them his portion is lavish,    and his food is rich.
Is he then to keep on emptying his net    and destroying nations without mercy?