Woe is me! For I have become like one who,    after the summer fruit has been gathered,    after the vintage has been gleaned,finds no cluster to eat;    there is no first-ripe fig for which I hunger.
The faithful have disappeared from the land,    and there is no one left who is upright;they all lie in wait for blood,    and they hunt each other with nets.
Their hands are skilled to do evil;    the official and the judge ask for a bribe,and the powerful dictate what they desire;    thus they pervert justice.
The best of them is like a brier,    the most upright of them a thorn hedge.The day of their sentinels, of their punishment, has come;    now their confusion is at hand.
Put no trust in a friend;    have no confidence in a loved one;guard the doors of your mouth    from her who lies in your embrace,
for the son treats the father with contempt,    the daughter rises up against her mother,the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;    your enemies are members of your own household.
But as for me, I will look to the Lord;    I will wait for the God of my salvation;    my God will hear me.
Do not rejoice over me, my enemies;    when I fall, I shall rise;when I sit in darkness,    the Lord will be a light to me.
I must bear the indignation of the Lord    because I have sinned against him,until he takes my side    and executes judgment for me.He will bring me out to the light;    I shall see his vindication.
Then my enemies will see,    and shame will cover those who said to me,    “Where is the Lord your God?”My eyes will see their downfall;    now they will be trodden down    like the mire of the streets.
A day for the building of your walls!    On that day the boundary shall be far extended.
On that day they will come to you    from Assyria to Egyptand from Egypt to the River,    from sea to sea and from mountain to mountain.
But the earth will be desolate    because of its inhabitants,    for the fruit of their doings.
Shepherd your people with your staff,    the flock that belongs to you,which lives alone in a forest    in the midst of a garden land;let them feed in Bashan and Gilead    as in the days of old.
As in the days when you came out of the land of Egypt,    show us marvelous things.
The nations shall see and be ashamed    of all their might;they shall lay their hands on their mouths;    their ears shall be deaf;
they shall lick dust like a snake,    like the crawling things of the earth;they shall come trembling out of their fortresses;    they shall turn in dread to the Lord our God,    and they shall stand in fear of you.
Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity    and passing over the transgression    of the remnant of his possession?He does not retain his anger forever    because he delights in showing steadfast love.
He will again have compassion upon us;    he will tread our iniquities under foot.You will cast all our sins    into the depths of the sea.
You will show faithfulness to Jacob    and steadfast love to Abraham,as you have sworn to our ancestors    from the days of old.