And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying,
“The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a marriage feast for his son,
and sent his servants to call those who were invited to the marriage feast; but they would not come.
Again he sent other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited, Behold, I have made ready my dinner, my oxen and my fat calves are killed, and everything is ready; come to the marriage feast.’
But they made light of it and went off, one to his farm, another to his business,
while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them.
The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding is ready, but those invited were not worthy.
Go therefore to the thoroughfares, and invite to the marriage feast as many as you find.’
And those servants went out into the streets and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good; so the wedding hall was filled with guests.
“But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment;
and he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?’ And he was speechless.
Then the king said to the attendants, ‘Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness; there men will weep and gnash their teeth.’
For many are called, but few are chosen.”
Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how to entangle him in his talk.
And they sent their disciples to him, along with the Hero′di-ans, saying, “Teacher, we know that you are true, and teach the way of God truthfully, and care for no man; for you do not regard the position of men.
Tell us, then, what you think. Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”
But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, “Why put me to the test, you hypocrites?
Show me the money for the tax.” And they brought him a coin.
And Jesus said to them, “Whose likeness and inscription is this?”
They said, “Caesar’s.” Then he said to them, “Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”
When they heard it, they marveled; and they left him and went away.
The same day Sad′ducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection; and they asked him a question,
saying, “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies, having no children, his brother must marry the widow, and raise up children for his brother.’
Now there were seven brothers among us; the first married, and died, and having no children left his wife to his brother.
So too the second and third, down to the seventh.
After them all, the woman died.
In the resurrection, therefore, to which of the seven will she be wife? For they all had her.”
But Jesus answered them, “You are wrong, because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God.
For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God,
‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? He is not God of the dead, but of the living.”
And when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.
But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sad′ducees, they came together.
And one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, to test him.
“Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?”
And he said to him, “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.
This is the great and first commandment.
And a second is like it, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets.”
Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
saying, “What do you think of the Christ? Whose son is he?” They said to him, “The son of David.”
He said to them, “How is it then that David, inspired by the Spirit, calls him Lord, saying,
‘The Lord said to my Lord,Sit at my right hand,till I put thy enemies under thy feet’?
If David thus calls him Lord, how is he his son?”
And no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day did any one dare to ask him any more questions.