Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.
And he fasted forty days and forty nights, and afterward he was hungry.
And the tempter came and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread.”
But he answered, “It is written,‘Man shall not live by bread alone,but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God.’”
Then the devil took him to the holy city, and set him on the pinnacle of the temple,
and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down; for it is written,‘He will give his angels charge of you,’and‘On their hands they will bear you up,lest you strike your foot against a stone.’”
Jesus said to him, “Again it is written, ‘You shall not tempt the Lord your God.’”
Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them;
and he said to him, “All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me.”
Then Jesus said to him, “Begone, Satan! for it is written,‘You shall worship the Lord your Godand him only shall you serve.’”
Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him.
Now when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee;
and leaving Nazareth he went and dwelt in Caper′na-um by the sea, in the territory of Zeb′ulun and Naph′tali,
that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled:
“The land of Zeb′ulun and the land of Naph′tali,toward the sea, across the Jordan,Galilee of the Gentiles—
the people who sat in darknesshave seen a great light,and for those who sat in the region and shadow of deathlight has dawned.”
From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.”
As he walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon who is called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea; for they were fishermen.
And he said to them, “Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.”
Immediately they left their nets and followed him.
And going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zeb′edee and John his brother, in the boat with Zeb′edee their father, mending their nets, and he called them.
Immediately they left the boat and their father, and followed him.
And he went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every infirmity among the people.
So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, demoniacs, epileptics, and paralytics, and he healed them.
And great crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decap′olis and Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan.