Six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Laz′arus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
There they made him a supper; Martha served, and Laz′arus was one of those at table with him.
Mary took a pound of costly ointment of pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment.
But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples (he who was to betray him), said,
“Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?”
This he said, not that he cared for the poor but because he was a thief, and as he had the money box he used to take what was put into it.
Jesus said, “Let her alone, let her keep it for the day of my burial.
The poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me.”
When the great crowd of the Jews learned that he was there, they came, not only on account of Jesus but also to see Laz′arus, whom he had raised from the dead.
So the chief priests planned to put Laz′arus also to death,
because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus.
The next day a great crowd who had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem.
So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying, “Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel!”
And Jesus found a young ass and sat upon it; as it is written,
“Fear not, daughter of Zion;behold, your king is coming,sitting on an ass’s colt!”
His disciples did not understand this at first; but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that this had been written of him and had been done to him.
The crowd that had been with him when he called Laz′arus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead bore witness.
The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign.
The Pharisees then said to one another, “You see that you can do nothing; look, the world has gone after him.”
Now among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks.
So these came to Philip, who was from Beth-sa′ida in Galilee, and said to him, “Sir, we wish to see Jesus.”
Philip went and told Andrew; Andrew went with Philip and they told Jesus.
And Jesus answered them, “The hour has come for the Son of man to be glorified.
Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
He who loves his life loses it, and he who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.
If any one serves me, he must follow me; and where I am, there shall my servant be also; if any one serves me, the Father will honor him.
“Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? ‘Father, save me from this hour’? No, for this purpose I have come to this hour.
Father, glorify thy name.” Then a voice came from heaven, “I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again.”
The crowd standing by heard it and said that it had thundered. Others said, “An angel has spoken to him.”
Jesus answered, “This voice has come for your sake, not for mine.
Now is the judgment of this world, now shall the ruler of this world be cast out;
and I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself.”
He said this to show by what death he was to die.
The crowd answered him, “We have heard from the law that the Christ remains for ever. How can you say that the Son of man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of man?”
Jesus said to them, “The light is with you for a little longer. Walk while you have the light, lest the darkness overtake you; he who walks in the darkness does not know where he goes.
While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light.”When Jesus had said this, he departed and hid himself from them.
Though he had done so many signs before them, yet they did not believe in him;
it was that the word spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled:“Lord, who has believed our report,and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?”
Therefore they could not believe. For Isaiah again said,
“He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart,lest they should see with their eyes and perceive with their heart,and turn for me to heal them.”
Isaiah said this because he saw his glory and spoke of him.
Nevertheless many even of the authorities believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees they did not confess it, lest they should be put out of the synagogue:
for they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.
And Jesus cried out and said, “He who believes in me, believes not in me but in him who sent me.
And he who sees me sees him who sent me.
I have come as light into the world, that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness.
If any one hears my sayings and does not keep them, I do not judge him; for I did not come to judge the world but to save the world.
He who rejects me and does not receive my sayings has a judge; the word that I have spoken will be his judge on the last day.
For I have not spoken on my own authority; the Father who sent me has himself given me commandment what to say and what to speak.
And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has bidden me.”