“I have said all this to you to keep you from falling away.
They will put you out of the synagogues; indeed, the hour is coming when whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God.
And they will do this because they have not known the Father, nor me.
But I have said these things to you, that when their hour comes you may remember that I told you of them.“I did not say these things to you from the beginning, because I was with you.
But now I am going to him who sent me; yet none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’
But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your hearts.
Nevertheless I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the Counselor will not come to you; but if I go, I will send him to you.
And when he comes, he will convince the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment:
concerning sin, because they do not believe in me;
concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father, and you will see me no more;
concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged.
“I have yet many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth; for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.
He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
All that the Father has is mine; therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
“A little while, and you will see me no more; again a little while, and you will see me.”
Some of his disciples said to one another, “What is this that he says to us, ‘A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me’; and, ‘because I go to the Father’?”
They said, “What does he mean by ‘a little while’? We do not know what he means.”
Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him; so he said to them, “Is this what you are asking yourselves, what I meant by saying, ‘A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me’?
Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy.
When a woman is in travail she has sorrow, because her hour has come; but when she is delivered of the child, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a child is born into the world.
So you have sorrow now, but I will see you again and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you.
In that day you will ask nothing of me. Truly, truly, I say to you, if you ask anything of the Father, he will give it to you in my name.
Hitherto you have asked nothing in my name; ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.
“I have said this to you in figures; the hour is coming when I shall no longer speak to you in figures but tell you plainly of the Father.
In that day you will ask in my name; and I do not say to you that I shall pray the Father for you;
for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from the Father.
I came from the Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the world and going to the Father.”
His disciples said, “Ah, now you are speaking plainly, not in any figure!
Now we know that you know all things, and need none to question you; by this we believe that you came from God.”
Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe?
The hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, every man to his home, and will leave me alone; yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
I have said this to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.”