Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers and sisters, you do not need to have anything written to you.
For you yourselves know very well that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.
When they say, “There is peace and security,” then sudden destruction will come upon them, as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and there will be no escape!
But you, brothers and sisters, are not in darkness, for that day to surprise you like a thief;
for you are all children of light and children of the day; we are not of the night or of darkness.
So, then, let us not fall asleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober,
for those who sleep sleep at night, and those who are drunk get drunk at night.
But since we belong to the day, let us be sober and put on the breastplate of faith and love and for a helmet the hope of salvation.
For God has destined us not for wrath but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep we may live with him.
Therefore encourage one another and build up each other, as indeed you are doing.
But we appeal to you, brothers and sisters, to respect those who labor among you and have charge of you in the Lord and admonish you;
esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
And we urge you, brothers and sisters, to admonish the idlers, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with all of them.
See that none of you repays evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to all.
Rejoice always,
pray without ceasing,
give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not despise prophecies,
but test everything; hold fast to what is good;
abstain from every form of evil.
May the God of peace himself sanctify you entirely, and may your spirit and soul and body be kept sound and blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
The one who calls you is faithful, and he will do this.
Brothers and sisters, pray for us.
Greet all the brothers and sisters with a holy kiss.
I solemnly command you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the brothers and sisters.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.