The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzzi′ah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezeki′ah, kings of Judah.
Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth;    for the Lord has spoken:“Sons have I reared and brought up,    but they have rebelled against me.
The ox knows its owner,    and the ass its master’s crib;but Israel does not know,    my people does not understand.”
Ah, sinful nation,    a people laden with iniquity,offspring of evildoers,    sons who deal corruptly!They have forsaken the Lord,    they have despised the Holy One of Israel,    they are utterly estranged.
Why will you still be smitten,    that you continue to rebel?The whole head is sick,    and the whole heart faint.
From the sole of the foot even to the head,    there is no soundness in it,but bruises and sores    and bleeding wounds;they are not pressed out, or bound up,    or softened with oil.
Your country lies desolate,    your cities are burned with fire;in your very presence    aliens devour your land;    it is desolate, as overthrown by aliens.
And the daughter of Zion is left    like a booth in a vineyard,like a lodge in a cucumber field,    like a besieged city.
If the Lord of hosts    had not left us a few survivors,we should have been like Sodom,    and become like Gomor′rah.
Hear the word of the Lord,    you rulers of Sodom!Give ear to the teaching of our God,    you people of Gomor′rah!
“What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices?    says the Lord;I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams    and the fat of fed beasts;I do not delight in the blood of bulls,    or of lambs, or of he-goats.
“When you come to appear before me,    who requires of you    this trampling of my courts?
Bring no more vain offerings;    incense is an abomination to me.New moon and sabbath and the calling of assemblies—    I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly.
Your new moons and your appointed feasts    my soul hates;they have become a burden to me,    I am weary of bearing them.
When you spread forth your hands,    I will hide my eyes from you;even though you make many prayers,    I will not listen;    your hands are full of blood.
Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean;    remove the evil of your doings    from before my eyes;cease to do evil,
learn to do good;seek justice,    correct oppression;defend the fatherless,    plead for the widow.
“Come now, let us reason together,    says the Lord:though your sins are like scarlet,    they shall be as white as snow;though they are red like crimson,    they shall become like wool.
If you are willing and obedient,    you shall eat the good of the land;
but if you refuse and rebel,    you shall be devoured by the sword;    for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.”
How the faithful city    has become a harlot,    she that was full of justice!Righteousness lodged in her,    but now murderers.
Your silver has become dross,    your wine mixed with water.
Your princes are rebels    and companions of thieves.Every one loves a bribe    and runs after gifts.They do not defend the fatherless,    and the widow’s cause does not come to them.
Therefore the Lord says,    the Lord of hosts,    the Mighty One of Israel:“Ah, I will vent my wrath on my enemies,    and avenge myself on my foes.
I will turn my hand against you    and will smelt away your dross as with lye    and remove all your alloy.
And I will restore your judges as at the first,    and your counselors as at the beginning.Afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness,    the faithful city.”
Zion shall be redeemed by justice,    and those in her who repent, by righteousness.
But rebels and sinners shall be destroyed together,    and those who forsake the Lord shall be consumed.
For you shall be ashamed of the oaks    in which you delighted;and you shall blush for the gardens    which you have chosen.
For you shall be like an oak    whose leaf withers,    and like a garden without water.
And the strong shall become tow,    and his work a spark,and both of them shall burn together,    with none to quench them.