There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse,    and a branch shall grow out of his roots.
And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him,    the spirit of wisdom and understanding,    the spirit of counsel and might,    the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord.
And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord.He shall not judge by what his eyes see,    or decide by what his ears hear;
but with righteousness he shall judge the poor,    and decide with equity for the meek of the earth;and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth,    and with the breath of his lips he shall slay the wicked.
Righteousness shall be the girdle of his waist,    and faithfulness the girdle of his loins.
The wolf shall dwell with the lamb,    and the leopard shall lie down with the kid,and the calf and the lion and the fatling together,    and a little child shall lead them.
The cow and the bear shall feed;    their young shall lie down together;    and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
The sucking child shall play over the hole of the asp,    and the weaned child shall put his hand on the adder’s den.
They shall not hurt or destroy    in all my holy mountain;for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord    as the waters cover the sea.
In that day the root of Jesse shall stand as an ensign to the peoples; him shall the nations seek, and his dwellings shall be glorious.
In that day the Lord will extend his hand yet a second time to recover the remnant which is left of his people, from Assyria, from Egypt, from Pathros, from Ethiopia, from Elam, from Shinar, from Hamath, and from the coastlands of the sea.
He will raise an ensign for the nations,    and will assemble the outcasts of Israel,and gather the dispersed of Judah    from the four corners of the earth.
The jealousy of E′phraim shall depart,    and those who harass Judah shall be cut off;E′phraim shall not be jealous of Judah,    and Judah shall not harass E′phraim.
But they shall swoop down upon the shoulder of the Philistines in the west,    and together they shall plunder the people of the east.They shall put forth their hand against Edom and Moab,    and the Ammonites shall obey them.
And the Lord will utterly destroy    the tongue of the sea of Egypt;and will wave his hand over the River    with his scorching wind,and smite it into seven channels    that men may cross dryshod.
And there will be a highway from Assyria    for the remnant which is left of his people,as there was for Israel    when they came up from the land of Egypt.