They have sent lambs    to the ruler of the land,from Sela, by way of the desert,    to the mount of the daughter of Zion.
Like fluttering birds,    like scattered nestlings,so are the daughters of Moab    at the fords of the Arnon.
“Give counsel,    grant justice;make your shade like night    at the height of noon;hide the outcasts,    betray not the fugitive;
let the outcasts of Moab    sojourn among you;be a refuge to them    from the destroyer.When the oppressor is no more,    and destruction has ceased,and he who tramples under foot    has vanished from the land,
then a throne will be established in steadfast love    and on it will sit in faithfulness    in the tent of Davidone who judges and seeks justice    and is swift to do righteousness.”
We have heard of the pride of Moab,    how proud he was;of his arrogance, his pride, and his insolence—    his boasts are false.
Therefore let Moab wail,    let every one wail for Moab.Mourn, utterly stricken,    for the raisin-cakes of Kir-har′eseth.
For the fields of Heshbon languish,    and the vine of Sibmah;the lords of the nations    have struck down its branches,which reached to Jazer    and strayed to the desert;its shoots spread abroad    and passed over the sea.
Therefore I weep with the weeping of Jazer    for the vine of Sibmah;I drench you with my tears,    O Heshbon and Ele-a′leh;for upon your fruit and your harvest    the battle shout has fallen.
And joy and gladness are taken away    from the fruitful field;and in the vineyards no songs are sung,    no shouts are raised;no treader treads out wine in the presses;    the vintage shout is hushed.
Therefore my soul moans like a lyre for Moab,    and my heart for Kir-he′res.
And when Moab presents himself, when he wearies himself upon the high place, when he comes to his sanctuary to pray, he will not prevail.
This is the word which the Lord spoke concerning Moab in the past.
But now the Lord says, “In three years, like the years of a hireling, the glory of Moab will be brought into contempt, in spite of all his great multitude, and those who survive will be very few and feeble.”