The oracle concerning the valley of vision.What do you mean that you have gone up,    all of you, to the housetops,
you who are full of shoutings,    tumultuous city, exultant town?Your slain are not slain with the sword    or dead in battle.
All your rulers have fled together,    without the bow they were captured.All of you who were found were captured,    though they had fled far away.
Therefore I said:“Look away from me,    let me weep bitter tears;do not labor to comfort me    for the destruction of the daughter of my people.”
For the Lord God of hosts has a day    of tumult and trampling and confusion    in the valley of vision,a battering down of walls    and a shouting to the mountains.
And Elam bore the quiver    with chariots and horsemen,    and Kir uncovered the shield.
Your choicest valleys were full of chariots,    and the horsemen took their stand at the gates.
He has taken away the covering of Judah.In that day you looked to the weapons of the House of the Forest,
and you saw that the breaches of the city of David were many, and you collected the waters of the lower pool,
and you counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you broke down the houses to fortify the wall.
You made a reservoir between the two walls for the water of the old pool. But you did not look to him who did it, or have regard for him who planned it long ago.
In that day the Lord God of hosts    called to weeping and mourning,    to baldness and girding with sackcloth;
and behold, joy and gladness,    slaying oxen and killing sheep,    eating flesh and drinking wine.“Let us eat and drink,    for tomorrow we die.”
The Lord of hosts has revealed himself in my ears:“Surely this iniquity will not be forgiven you    till you die,”    says the Lord God of hosts.
Thus says the Lord God of hosts, “Come, go to this steward, to Shebna, who is over the household, and say to him:
What have you to do here and whom have you here, that you have hewn here a tomb for yourself, you who hew a tomb on the height, and carve a habitation for yourself in the rock?
Behold, the Lord will hurl you away violently, O you strong man. He will seize firm hold on you,
and whirl you round and round, and throw you like a ball into a wide land; there you shall die, and there shall be your splendid chariots, you shame of your master’s house.
I will thrust you from your office, and you will be cast down from your station.
In that day I will call my servant Eli′akim the son of Hilki′ah,
and I will clothe him with your robe, and will bind your girdle on him, and will commit your authority to his hand; and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah.
And I will place on his shoulder the key of the house of David; he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open.
And I will fasten him like a peg in a sure place, and he will become a throne of honor to his father’s house.
And they will hang on him the whole weight of his father’s house, the offspring and issue, every small vessel, from the cups to all the flagons.
In that day, says the Lord of hosts, the peg that was fastened in a sure place will give way; and it will be cut down and fall, and the burden that was upon it will be cut off, for the Lord has spoken.”