For, behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts,    is taking away from Jerusalem and from Judahstay and staff,    the whole stay of bread,    and the whole stay of water;
the mighty man and the soldier,    the judge and the prophet,    the diviner and the elder,
the captain of fifty    and the man of rank,the counselor and the skilful magician    and the expert in charms.
And I will make boys their princes,    and babes shall rule over them.
And the people will oppress one another,    every man his fellow    and every man his neighbor;the youth will be insolent to the elder,    and the base fellow to the honorable.
When a man takes hold of his brother    in the house of his father, saying:“You have a mantle;    you shall be our leader,and this heap of ruins    shall be under your rule”;
in that day he will speak out, saying:“I will not be a healer;    in my house there is neither bread nor mantle;you shall not make me    leader of the people.”
For Jerusalem has stumbled,    and Judah has fallen;because their speech and their deeds are against the Lord,    defying his glorious presence.
Their partiality witnesses against them;    they proclaim their sin like Sodom,    they do not hide it.Woe to them!    For they have brought evil upon themselves.
Tell the righteous that it shall be well with them,    for they shall eat the fruit of their deeds.
Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him,    for what his hands have done shall be done to him.
My people—children are their oppressors,    and women rule over them.O my people, your leaders mislead you,    and confuse the course of your paths.
The Lord has taken his place to contend,    he stands to judge his people.
The Lord enters into judgment    with the elders and princes of his people:“It is you who have devoured the vineyard,    the spoil of the poor is in your houses.
What do you mean by crushing my people,    by grinding the face of the poor?”                says the Lord God of hosts.
The Lord said:Because the daughters of Zion are haughty    and walk with outstretched necks,    glancing wantonly with their eyes,mincing along as they go,    tinkling with their feet;
the Lord will smite with a scab    the heads of the daughters of Zion,    and the Lord will lay bare their secret parts.
In that day the Lord will take away the finery of the anklets, the headbands, and the crescents;
the pendants, the bracelets, and the scarfs;
the headdresses, the armlets, the sashes, the perfume boxes, and the amulets;
the signet rings and nose rings;
the festal robes, the mantles, the cloaks, and the handbags;
the garments of gauze, the linen garments, the turbans, and the veils.
Instead of perfume there will be rottenness;    and instead of a girdle, a rope;and instead of well-set hair, baldness;    and instead of a rich robe, a girding of sackcloth;    instead of beauty, shame.
Your men shall fall by the sword    and your mighty men in battle.
And her gates shall lament and mourn;    ravaged, she shall sit upon the ground.