Behold, a king will reign in righteousness,    and princes will rule in justice.
Each will be like a hiding place from the wind,    a covert from the tempest,like streams of water in a dry place,    like the shade of a great rock in a weary land.
Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed,    and the ears of those who hear will hearken.
The mind of the rash will have good judgment,    and the tongue of the stammerers will speak readily and distinctly.
The fool will no more be called noble,    nor the knave said to be honorable.
For the fool speaks folly,    and his mind plots iniquity:to practice ungodliness,    to utter error concerning the Lord,to leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied,    and to deprive the thirsty of drink.
The knaveries of the knave are evil;    he devises wicked devicesto ruin the poor with lying words,    even when the plea of the needy is right.
But he who is noble devises noble things,    and by noble things he stands.
Rise up, you women who are at ease, hear my voice;    you complacent daughters, give ear to my speech.
In little more than a year    you will shudder, you complacent women;for the vintage will fail,    the fruit harvest will not come.
Tremble, you women who are at ease,    shudder, you complacent ones;strip, and make yourselves bare,    and gird sackcloth upon your loins.
Beat upon your breasts for the pleasant fields,    for the fruitful vine,
for the soil of my people    growing up in thorns and briers;yea, for all the joyous houses    in the joyful city.
For the palace will be forsaken,    the populous city deserted;the hill and the watchtower    will become dens for ever,a joy of wild asses,    a pasture of flocks;
until the Spirit is poured upon us from on high,    and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field,    and the fruitful field is deemed a forest.
Then justice will dwell in the wilderness,    and righteousness abide in the fruitful field.
And the effect of righteousness will be peace,    and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust for ever.
My people will abide in a peaceful habitation,    in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.
And the forest will utterly go down,    and the city will be utterly laid low.
Happy are you who sow beside all waters,    who let the feet of the ox and the ass range free.