Woe to you, destroyer,    who yourself have not been destroyed;you treacherous one,    with whom none has dealt treacherously!When you have ceased to destroy,    you will be destroyed;and when you have made an end of dealing treacherously,    you will be dealt with treacherously.
O Lord, be gracious to us; we wait for thee.    Be our arm every morning,    our salvation in the time of trouble.
At the thunderous noise peoples flee,    at the lifting up of thyself nations are scattered;
and spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers;    as locusts leap, men leap upon it.
The Lord is exalted, for he dwells on high;    he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness;
and he will be the stability of your times,    abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge;    the fear of the Lord is his treasure.
Behold, the valiant ones cry without;    the envoys of peace weep bitterly.
The highways lie waste,    the wayfaring man ceases.Covenants are broken,    witnesses are despised,    there is no regard for man.
The land mourns and languishes;    Lebanon is confounded and withers away;Sharon is like a desert;    and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
“Now I will arise,” says the Lord,    “now I will lift myself up;    now I will be exalted.
You conceive chaff, you bring forth stubble;    your breath is a fire that will consume you.
And the peoples will be as if burned to lime,    like thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire.”
Hear, you who are far off, what I have done;    and you who are near, acknowledge my might.
The sinners in Zion are afraid;    trembling has seized the godless:“Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire?    Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?”
He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly,    who despises the gain of oppressions,who shakes his hands, lest they hold a bribe,    who stops his ears from hearing of bloodshed    and shuts his eyes from looking upon evil,
he will dwell on the heights;    his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks;    his bread will be given him, his water will be sure.
Your eyes will see the king in his beauty;    they will behold a land that stretches afar.
Your mind will muse on the terror:    “Where is he who counted, where is he who weighed the tribute?    Where is he who counted the towers?”
You will see no more the insolent people,    the people of an obscure speech which you cannot comprehend,    stammering in a tongue which you cannot understand.
Look upon Zion, the city of our appointed feasts!    Your eyes will see Jerusalem,    a quiet habitation, an immovable tent,whose stakes will never be plucked up,    nor will any of its cords be broken.
But there the Lord in majesty will be for us    a place of broad rivers and streams,where no galley with oars can go,    nor stately ship can pass.
For the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our ruler,    the Lord is our king; he will save us.
Your tackle hangs loose;    it cannot hold the mast firm in its place,    or keep the sail spread out.Then prey and spoil in abundance will be divided;    even the lame will take the prey.
And no inhabitant will say, “I am sick”;    the people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity.