“Hearken to me, you who pursue deliverance,    you who seek the Lord;look to the rock from which you were hewn,    and to the quarry from which you were digged.
Look to Abraham your father    and to Sarah who bore you;for when he was but one I called him,    and I blessed him and made him many.
For the Lord will comfort Zion;    he will comfort all her waste places,and will make her wilderness like Eden,    her desert like the garden of the Lord;joy and gladness will be found in her,    thanksgiving and the voice of song.
“Listen to me, my people,    and give ear to me, my nation;for a law will go forth from me,    and my justice for a light to the peoples.
My deliverance draws near speedily,    my salvation has gone forth,    and my arms will rule the peoples;the coastlands wait for me,    and for my arm they hope.
Lift up your eyes to the heavens,    and look at the earth beneath;for the heavens will vanish like smoke,    the earth will wear out like a garment,    and they who dwell in it will die like gnats;but my salvation will be for ever,    and my deliverance will never be ended.
“Hearken to me, you who know righteousness,    the people in whose heart is my law;fear not the reproach of men,    and be not dismayed at their revilings.
For the moth will eat them up like a garment,    and the worm will eat them like wool;but my deliverance will be for ever,    and my salvation to all generations.”
Awake, awake, put on strength,    O arm of the Lord;awake, as in days of old,    the generations of long ago.Was it not thou that didst cut Rahab in pieces,    that didst pierce the dragon?
Was it not thou that didst dry up the sea,    the waters of the great deep;that didst make the depths of the sea a way    for the redeemed to pass over?
And the ransomed of the Lord shall return,    and come to Zion with singing;everlasting joy shall be upon their heads;    they shall obtain joy and gladness,    and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
“I, I am he that comforts you;    who are you that you are afraid of man who dies,    of the son of man who is made like grass,
and have forgotten the Lord, your Maker,    who stretched out the heavens    and laid the foundations of the earth,and fear continually all the day    because of the fury of the oppressor,when he sets himself to destroy?    And where is the fury of the oppressor?
He who is bowed down shall speedily be released;    he shall not die and go down to the Pit,    neither shall his bread fail.
For I am the Lord your God,    who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar—    the Lord of hosts is his name.
And I have put my words in your mouth,    and hid you in the shadow of my hand,stretching out the heavens    and laying the foundations of the earth,    and saying to Zion, ‘You are my people.’”
Rouse yourself, rouse yourself,    stand up, O Jerusalem,you who have drunk at the hand of the Lord    the cup of his wrath,who have drunk to the dregs    the bowl of staggering.
There is none to guide her    among all the sons she has borne;there is none to take her by the hand    among all the sons she has brought up.
These two things have befallen you—    who will condole with you?—devastation and destruction, famine and sword;    who will comfort you?
Your sons have fainted,    they lie at the head of every street    like an antelope in a net;they are full of the wrath of the Lord,    the rebuke of your God.
Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted,    who are drunk, but not with wine:
Thus says your Lord, the Lord,    your God who pleads the cause of his people:“Behold, I have taken from your hand    the cup of staggering;the bowl of my wrath    you shall drink no more;
and I will put it into the hand of your tormentors,    who have said to you,    ‘Bow down, that we may pass over’;and you have made your back like the ground    and like the street for them to pass over.”