“Ho, every one who thirsts,    come to the waters;and he who has no money,    come, buy and eat!Come, buy wine and milk    without money and without price.
Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread,    and your labor for that which does not satisfy?Hearken diligently to me, and eat what is good,    and delight yourselves in fatness.
Incline your ear, and come to me;    hear, that your soul may live;and I will make with you an everlasting covenant,    my steadfast, sure love for David.
Behold, I made him a witness to the peoples,    a leader and commander for the peoples.
Behold, you shall call nations that you know not,    and nations that knew you not shall run to you,because of the Lord your God, and of the Holy One of Israel,    for he has glorified you.
“Seek the Lord while he may be found,    call upon him while he is near;
let the wicked forsake his way,    and the unrighteous man his thoughts;let him return to the Lord, that he may have mercy on him,    and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
For my thoughts are not your thoughts,    neither are your ways my ways, says the Lord.
For as the heavens are higher than the earth,    so are my ways higher than your ways    and my thoughts than your thoughts.
“For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven,    and return not thither but water the earth,making it bring forth and sprout,    giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater,
so shall my word be that goes forth from my mouth;    it shall not return to me empty,but it shall accomplish that which I purpose,    and prosper in the thing for which I sent it.
“For you shall go out in joy,    and be led forth in peace;the mountains and the hills before you    shall break forth into singing,    and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.
Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress;    instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle;and it shall be to the Lord for a memorial,    for an everlasting sign which shall not be cut off.”