The righteous man perishes,and no one lays it to heart;devout men are taken away,    while no one understands.For the righteous man is taken away from calamity,
he enters into peace;they rest in their beds    who walk in their uprightness.
But you, draw near hither,    sons of the sorceress,    offspring of the adulterer and the harlot.
Of whom are you making sport?    Against whom do you open your mouth wide    and put out your tongue?Are you not children of transgression,    the offspring of deceit,
you who burn with lust among the oaks,    under every green tree;who slay your children in the valleys,    under the clefts of the rocks?
Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion;    they, they, are your lot;to them you have poured out a drink offering,    you have brought a cereal offering.    Shall I be appeased for these things?
Upon a high and lofty mountain    you have set your bed,    and thither you went up to offer sacrifice.
Behind the door and the doorpost    you have set up your symbol;for, deserting me, you have uncovered your bed,    you have gone up to it,    you have made it wide;and you have made a bargain for yourself with them,    you have loved their bed,    you have looked on nakedness.
You journeyed to Molech with oil    and multiplied your perfumes;you sent your envoys far off,    and sent down even to Sheol.
You were wearied with the length of your way,    but you did not say, “It is hopeless”;you found new life for your strength,    and so you were not faint.
Whom did you dread and fear,    so that you lied,and did not remember me,    did not give me a thought?Have I not held my peace, even for a long time,    and so you do not fear me?
I will tell of your righteousness and your doings,    but they will not help you.
When you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you!    The wind will carry them off,    a breath will take them away.But he who takes refuge in me shall possess the land,    and shall inherit my holy mountain.
And it shall be said,“Build up, build up, prepare the way,    remove every obstruction from my people’s way.”
For thus says the high and lofty One    who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy:“I dwell in the high and holy place,    and also with him who is of a contrite and humble spirit,to revive the spirit of the humble,    and to revive the heart of the contrite.
For I will not contend for ever,    nor will I always be angry;for from me proceeds the spirit,    and I have made the breath of life.
Because of the iniquity of his covetousness I was angry,    I smote him, I hid my face and was angry;    but he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart.
I have seen his ways, but I will heal him;    I will lead him and requite him with comfort,    creating for his mourners the fruit of the lips.
Peace, peace, to the far and to the near, says the Lord;    and I will heal him.
But the wicked are like the tossing sea;    for it cannot rest,    and its waters toss up mire and dirt.
There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked.”