Masters, treat your slaves justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving;
and pray for us also, that God may open to us a door for the word, to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison,
that I may make it clear, as I ought to speak.
Conduct yourselves wisely toward outsiders, making the most of the time.
Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer every one.
Tych′icus will tell you all about my affairs; he is a beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord.
I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are and that he may encourage your hearts,
and with him Ones′imus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of yourselves. They will tell you of everything that has taken place here.
Aristar′chus my fellow prisoner greets you, and Mark the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you have received instructions—if he comes to you, receive him),
and Jesus who is called Justus. These are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me.
Ep′aphras, who is one of yourselves, a servant of Christ Jesus, greets you, always remembering you earnestly in his prayers, that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.
For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you and for those in La-odice′a and in Hi-erap′olis.
Luke the beloved physician and Demas greet you.
Give my greetings to the brethren at La-odice′a, and to Nympha and the church in her house.
And when this letter has been read among you, have it read also in the church of the La-odice′ans; and see that you read also the letter from La-odice′a.
And say to Archip′pus, “See that you fulfil the ministry which you have received in the Lord.”
I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my fetters. Grace be with you.