“When anyone presents a grain offering to the Lord, the offering shall be of choice flour; the worshiper shall pour oil on it and put frankincense on it
and bring it to Aaron’s sons the priests. After taking from it a handful of the choice flour and oil, with all its frankincense, the priest shall turn this token portion into smoke on the altar, an offering by fire of pleasing odor to the Lord.
And what is left of the grain offering shall be for Aaron and his sons, a most holy part of the offerings by fire to the Lord.
“When you present a grain offering baked in the oven, it shall be of choice flour: unleavened cakes mixed with oil or unleavened wafers spread with oil.
If your offering is grain prepared on a griddle, it shall be of choice flour mixed with oil, unleavened;
break it in pieces and pour oil on it; it is a grain offering.
If your offering is grain prepared in a pan, it shall be made of choice flour in oil.
You shall bring to the Lord the grain offering that is prepared in any of these ways, and when it is presented to the priest, he shall take it to the altar.
The priest shall remove from the grain offering its token portion and turn this into smoke on the altar, an offering by fire of pleasing odor to the Lord.
And what is left of the grain offering shall be for Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the offerings by fire to the Lord.
“No grain offering that you bring to the Lord shall be made with leaven, for you must not turn any leaven or honey into smoke as an offering by fire to the Lord.
You may bring them to the Lord as an offering of choice products, but they shall not be offered on the altar for a pleasing odor.
All your grain offerings you shall season with salt; you shall not omit from your grain offerings the salt of the covenant with your God; with all your offerings you shall offer salt.
“If you bring a grain offering of first fruits to the Lord, you shall bring as the grain offering of your first fruits crushed new grain from fresh ears, roasted in fire.
You shall add oil to it and lay frankincense on it; it is a grain offering.
And the priest shall turn a token portion of it into smoke—some of the crushed grain and oil with all its frankincense; it is an offering by fire to the Lord.