The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“Command the Israelites to bring you pure oil of beaten olives for the lamp, that a light may be kept burning regularly.
Aaron shall set it up in the tent of meeting, outside the curtain of the covenant, to burn from evening to morning before the Lord regularly; it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.
He shall set up the lamps on the lampstand of pure gold before the Lord regularly.
“You shall take choice flour and bake twelve loaves of it; two-tenths of an ephah shall be in each loaf.
You shall place them in two rows, six in a row, on the table of pure gold before the Lord.
You shall put pure frankincense with each row, to be a token offering for the bread, as an offering by fire to the Lord.
Every Sabbath day Aaron shall set them in order before the Lord regularly as a commitment of the Israelites, as a covenant forever.
They shall be for Aaron and his descendants, who shall eat them in a holy place, for they are most holy portions for him from the offerings by fire to the Lord, a perpetual due.”
A man whose mother was an Israelite and whose father was an Egyptian came out among the Israelites, and the Israelite woman’s son and a certain Israelite began fighting in the camp.
The Israelite woman’s son blasphemed the Name in a curse. And they brought him to Moses—now his mother’s name was Shelomith daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan—
and they put him in custody, until the decision of the Lord should be made clear to them.
The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“Take the blasphemer outside the camp, and let all who were within hearing lay their hands on his head, and let the whole congregation stone him.
And speak to the Israelites, saying: Anyone who curses God shall incur guilt.
One who blasphemes the name of the Lord shall be put to death; the whole congregation shall stone the blasphemer. Aliens as well as the native-born, when they blaspheme the Name, shall be put to death.
Anyone who kills a human being shall be put to death.
Anyone who kills an animal shall make restitution for it, life for life.
Anyone who maims another shall suffer the same injury in return:
fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; the injury inflicted is the injury to be suffered.
One who kills an animal shall make restitution for it, but one who kills a human being shall be put to death.
You shall have one law for the alien and for the native-born, for I am the Lord your God.”
Moses spoke thus to the Israelites, and they took the blasphemer outside the camp and stoned him to death. The Israelites did as the Lord had commanded Moses.