The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“When any of you sin and commit a trespass against the Lord by deceiving a neighbor in a matter of a deposit or a pledge or by robbery or if you have defrauded a neighbor
or have found something lost and lied about it—if you swear falsely regarding any of the various things that one may do and sin—
when you have sinned and recognize your guilt and would restore what you took by robbery or by fraud or the deposit that was committed to you or the lost thing that you found
or anything else about which you have sworn falsely, you shall repay the principal amount and add one-fifth to it. You shall pay it to its owner when you recognize your guilt.
And you shall bring to the priest, as your guilt offering to the Lord, a ram without blemish from the flock, or its equivalent, for a guilt offering.
The priest shall make atonement on your behalf before the Lord, and you shall be forgiven for any of the things that one may do and incur guilt thereby.”
The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“Command Aaron and his sons: This is the rule of the burnt offering. The burnt offering itself shall remain on the hearth upon the altar all night until the morning, while the fire on the altar shall be kept burning.
The priest shall put on his linen vestments after putting on his linen undergarments next to his body, and he shall take up the ashes to which the fire has reduced the burnt offering on the altar and place them beside the altar.
Then he shall take off his vestments and put on other garments and carry the ashes out to a clean place outside the camp.
The fire on the altar shall be kept burning; it shall not go out. Every morning the priest shall add wood to it, lay out the burnt offering on it, and turn into smoke the fat pieces of the offerings of well-being.
A perpetual fire shall be kept burning on the altar; it shall not go out.
“This is the rule of the grain offering: The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the Lord, in front of the altar.
They shall take from it a handful of the choice flour and oil of the grain offering, with all the frankincense that is on the offering, and they shall turn its memorial portion into smoke on the altar as a pleasing odor to the Lord.
Aaron and his sons shall eat what is left of it; it shall be eaten as unleavened cakes in a holy place; in the court of the tent of meeting they shall eat it.
It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it as their portion of my offerings by fire; it is most holy, like the purification offering and the guilt offering.
Every male among the descendants of Aaron shall eat of it, as their perpetual due throughout your generations, from the Lord’s offerings by fire; anything that touches them shall become holy.”
The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“This is the offering that Aaron and his sons shall offer to the Lord on the day when he is anointed: one-tenth of an ephah of choice flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning and half in the evening.
It shall be made with oil on a griddle; you shall bring it well soaked, as a grain offering of baked pieces, and you shall present it as a pleasing odor to the Lord.
And so the priest, anointed from among Aaron’s descendants as a successor, shall prepare it; it is the Lord’s—a perpetual due—to be turned entirely into smoke.
Every grain offering of a priest shall be wholly burned; it shall not be eaten.”
The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying: This is the rule of the purification offering. The purification offering shall be slaughtered before the Lord at the spot where the burnt offering is slaughtered; it is most holy.
The priest who offers it as a purification offering shall eat of it; it shall be eaten in a holy place, in the court of the tent of meeting.
Whatever touches its flesh shall become holy, and when any of its blood is spattered on a garment, you shall wash the bespattered part in a holy place.
A clay vessel in which it was boiled shall be broken, but if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, that shall be scoured and rinsed in water.
Every male among the priests shall eat of it; it is most holy.
But no purification offering shall be eaten from which any blood is brought into the tent of meeting for atonement in the holy place; it shall be burned with fire.