“This is the rule of the guilt offering; it is most holy.
At the spot where the burnt offering is slaughtered, they shall slaughter the guilt offering, and its blood shall be dashed against all sides of the altar.
All its fat shall be offered: the fatty tail, the fat that covers the entrails,
the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the appendage of the liver, which shall be removed with the kidneys.
The priest shall turn them into smoke on the altar as an offering by fire to the Lord; it is a guilt offering.
Every male among the priests shall eat of it; it shall be eaten in a holy place; it is most holy.
“The guilt offering is like the purification offering; the same rule applies to them: the priest who makes atonement with it shall have it.
So, too, the priest who offers a burnt offering for anyone shall keep the skin of the burnt offering that he has offered.
And every grain offering baked in the oven and all that is prepared in a pan or on a griddle shall belong to the priest who offers it.
But every other grain offering, mixed with oil or dry, shall belong to all the sons of Aaron equally.
“This is the rule of the sacrifice of well-being that one may offer to the Lord.
If you offer it for thanksgiving, you shall offer with the thank offering unleavened cakes mixed with oil, unleavened wafers spread with oil, and cakes of choice flour well soaked in oil.
With your thanksgiving sacrifice of well-being you shall bring your offering with cakes of leavened bread.
From this you shall offer one cake from each offering, as a gift to the Lord; it shall belong to the priest who dashes the blood of the offering of well-being.
And the flesh of your thanksgiving sacrifice of well-being shall be eaten on the day it is offered; you shall not leave any of it until morning.
But if the sacrifice you offer is a votive offering or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that you offer your sacrifice, and what is left of it shall be eaten the next day,
but what is left of the flesh of the sacrifice shall be burned up on the third day.
If any of the flesh of your sacrifice of well-being is eaten on the third day, it shall not be acceptable, nor shall it be credited to the one who offers it; it shall be an abomination, and the one who eats of it shall incur guilt.
“Flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burned up. As for other flesh, all who are clean may eat such flesh.
But those who eat flesh from the Lord’s sacrifice of well-being while in a state of uncleanness shall be cut off from their people.
When any one of you touches any unclean thing—human uncleanness or an unclean animal or any unclean creature—and then eats flesh from the Lord’s sacrifice of well-being, you shall be cut off from your people.”
The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“Speak to the Israelites: You shall eat no fat of ox or sheep or goat.
The fat of an animal that died or was torn by wild animals may be put to any other use, but you must not eat it.
If any one of you eats the fat from an animal of which an offering by fire may be made to the Lord, you who eat it shall be cut off from your people.
You must not eat any blood whatever, either of bird or of animal, in any of your settlements.
Any one of you who eats any blood shall be cut off from your people.”
The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“Speak to the Israelites: Any one of you who would offer to the Lord your sacrifice of well-being must yourself bring to the Lord your offering from your sacrifice of well-being.
Your own hands shall bring the Lord’s offering by fire; you shall bring the fat with the breast, so that the breast may be raised as an elevation offering before the Lord.
The priest shall turn the fat into smoke on the altar, but the breast shall belong to Aaron and his sons.
And the right thigh from your sacrifices of well-being you shall give to the priest as an offering;
the one among the sons of Aaron who offers the blood and fat of the offering of well-being shall have the right thigh for a portion.
For I have taken the breast of the elevation offering and the thigh that is offered from the Israelites, from their sacrifices of well-being, and have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons, as a perpetual due from the Israelites.
This is the portion allotted to Aaron and to his sons from the offerings made by fire to the Lord, once they have been brought forward to serve the Lord as priests;
these the Lord commanded to be given them, when he anointed them, as a perpetual due from the Israelites throughout their generations.”
This is the rule of the burnt offering, the grain offering, the purification offering, the guilt offering, the offering of ordination, and the sacrifice of well-being,
which the Lord commanded Moses on Mount Sinai, when he commanded the Israelites to bring their offerings to the Lord, in the wilderness of Sinai.