Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge,    but those who hate to be rebuked are stupid.
The good obtain favor from the Lord,    but those who devise evil he condemns.
No one finds security by wickedness,    but the root of the righteous will never be moved.
A good wife is the crown of her husband,    but she who brings shame is like rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are just;    the advice of the wicked is treacherous.
The words of the wicked are a deadly ambush,    but the speech of the upright delivers them.
The wicked are overthrown and are no more,    but the house of the righteous will stand.
One is commended for good sense,    but a perverse mind is despised.
Better to be despised and have produce    than to be self-important and lack food.
The righteous know the needs of their animals,    but the mercy of the wicked is cruel.
Those who till their land will have plenty of food,    but those who follow worthless pursuits have no sense.
The wicked covet the proceeds of wickedness,    but the root of the righteous bears fruit.
The evil are ensnared by the transgression of their lips,    but the righteous escape from trouble.
From the fruit of the mouth one is filled with good things,    and manual labor has its reward.
Fools think their own way is right,    but the wise listen to advice.
Fools show their anger at once,    but the prudent ignore an insult.
Whoever speaks the truth gives honest evidence,    but a false witness speaks deceitfully.
Rash words are like sword thrusts,    but the tongue of the wise brings healing.
Truthful lips endure forever,    but a lying tongue lasts only a moment.
Deceit is in the mind of those who plan evil,    but those who counsel peace have joy.
No harm happens to the righteous,    but the wicked are filled with trouble.
Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord,    but those who act faithfully are his delight.
One who is clever conceals knowledge,    but the mind of a fool broadcasts folly.
The hand of the diligent will rule,    while the lazy will be put to forced labor.
Anxiety weighs down the human heart,    but a good word cheers it up.
The righteous are released from misfortune,    but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
The lazy do not roast their game,    but the diligent obtain precious wealth.
In the path of righteousness there is life;    in walking its path there is no death.