The wicked flee when no one pursues,    but the righteous are as bold as a lion.
When a land rebels    it has many rulers;but with an intelligent person, honesty endures.
A poor person who oppresses the poor    is a beating rain that leaves no food.
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked,    but those who keep the law struggle against them.
The evil do not understand justice,    but those who seek the Lord understand it completely.
Better to be poor and walk in integrity    than to be crooked in one’s ways even though rich.
Those who keep the law are wise children,    but companions of gluttons shame their parents.
One who augments wealth by exorbitant interest    gathers it for another who is kind to the poor.
When one will not listen to the law,    even one’s prayers are an abomination.
Those who mislead the upright into evil ways    will fall into pits of their own making,    but the blameless will have a goodly inheritance.
The rich is wise in self-esteem,    but an intelligent poor person sees through the pose.
When the righteous rejoice, there is great glory,    but when the wicked prevail, people go into hiding.
No one who conceals transgressions will prosper,    but one who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy.
Happy is the one who is never without fear,    but one who is hard-hearted will fall into calamity.
Like a roaring lion or a charging bear    is a wicked ruler over a poor people.
A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor,    but one who hates unjust gain will enjoy a long life.
If someone is burdened with the blood of another,    let that killer be a fugitive until death;    let no one offer assistance.
One who walks in integrity will be safe,    but whoever follows crooked ways will fall into the Pit.
Anyone who tills the land will have plenty of bread,    but one who follows worthless pursuits will have plenty of poverty.
The faithful will abound with blessings,    but one who is in a hurry to be rich will not go unpunished.
To show partiality is not good,    yet for a piece of bread a person may do wrong.
The miser is in a hurry to get rich    and does not know that loss is sure to come.
Whoever rebukes a person will afterward find more favor    than one who flatters with the tongue.
Anyone who robs father or mother    and says, “That is no crime,”    is partner to a thug.
The greedy person stirs up strife,    but whoever trusts in the Lord will be enriched.
Those who trust in their own wits are fools,    but those who walk in wisdom come through safely.
Whoever gives to the poor will lack nothing,    but one who turns a blind eye will get many a curse.
When the wicked prevail, people go into hiding,    but when they perish, the righteous increase.