Say to your brothers, “Ammi,” and to your sisters, “Ruhamah.”
Plead with your mother, plead—    for she is not my wife,    and I am not her husband—that she put away her prostitution from her face    and her adultery from between her breasts,
or I will strip her naked    and expose her as in the day she was bornand make her like a wilderness    and turn her into a parched land    and kill her with thirst.
Upon her children also I will have no pity,    because they are children of prostitution.
For their mother has prostituted herself;    she who conceived them has acted shamefully.For she said, “I will go after my lovers;    they give me my bread and my water,    my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink.”
Therefore I will hedge up her way with thorns,    and I will build a wall against her    so that she cannot find her paths.
She shall pursue her lovers    but not overtake them,and she shall seek them    but shall not find them.Then she shall say, “I will go    and return to my first husband,    for it was better with me then than now.”
She did not know    that it was I who gave her    the grain, the wine, and the oiland who lavished upon her silver    and gold that they used for Baal.
Therefore I will take back    my grain in its time    and my wine in its season,and I will take away my wool and my flax,    which were to cover her nakedness.
Now I will uncover her shame    in the sight of her lovers,    and no one shall rescue her out of my hand.
I will put an end to all her mirth,    her festivals, her new moons, her Sabbaths,    and all her appointed festivals.
I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees,    of which she said,“These are my pay,    which my lovers have given me.”I will make them a forest,    and the wild animals shall devour them.
I will punish her for the festival days of the Baals,    to whom she offered incenseand decked herself with her rings and jewelry    and went after her lovers    and forgot me, says the Lord.
Therefore, I will now allure her    and bring her into the wilderness    and speak tenderly to her.
From there I will give her her vineyards    and make the Valley of Achor a door of hope.There she shall respond as in the days of her youth,    as at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt.
On that day, says the Lord, you will call me “my husband,” and no longer will you call me “my Baal.”
For I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth, and they shall be mentioned by name no more.
I will make for you a covenant on that day with the wild animals, the birds of the air, and the creeping things of the ground, and I will abolish the bow, the sword, and war from the land, and I will make you lie down in safety.
And I will take you for my wife forever; I will take you for my wife in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy.
I will take you for my wife in faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord.
On that day I will answer, says the Lord,    I will answer the heavens,    and they shall answer the earth,
and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil,    and they shall answer Jezreel,
and I will sow him for myself in the land.And I will have pity on Lo-ruhamah,    and I will say to Lo-ammi, “You are my people,”    and he shall say, “You are my God.”