They came to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Ger′asenes.
And when he had come out of the boat, there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
who lived among the tombs; and no one could bind him any more, even with a chain;
for he had often been bound with fetters and chains, but the chains he wrenched apart, and the fetters he broke in pieces; and no one had the strength to subdue him.
Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains he was always crying out, and bruising himself with stones.
And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and worshiped him;
and crying out with a loud voice, he said, “What have you to do with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not torment me.”
For he had said to him, “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!”
And Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” He replied, “My name is Legion; for we are many.”
And he begged him eagerly not to send them out of the country.
Now a great herd of swine was feeding there on the hillside;
and they begged him, “Send us to the swine, let us enter them.”
So he gave them leave. And the unclean spirits came out, and entered the swine; and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea, and were drowned in the sea.
The herdsmen fled, and told it in the city and in the country. And people came to see what it was that had happened.
And they came to Jesus, and saw the demoniac sitting there, clothed and in his right mind, the man who had had the legion; and they were afraid.
And those who had seen it told what had happened to the demoniac and to the swine.
And they began to beg Jesus to depart from their neighborhood.
And as he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he might be with him.
But he refused, and said to him, “Go home to your friends, and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.”
And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decap′olis how much Jesus had done for him; and all men marveled.
And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him; and he was beside the sea.
Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Ja′irus by name; and seeing him, he fell at his feet,
and besought him, saying, “My little daughter is at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well, and live.”
And he went with him.And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him.
And there was a woman who had had a flow of blood for twelve years,
and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better but rather grew worse.
She had heard the reports about Jesus, and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment.
For she said, “If I touch even his garments, I shall be made well.”
And immediately the hemorrhage ceased; and she felt in her body that she was healed of her disease.
And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone forth from him, immediately turned about in the crowd, and said, “Who touched my garments?”
And his disciples said to him, “You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, ‘Who touched me?’”
And he looked around to see who had done it.
But the woman, knowing what had been done to her, came in fear and trembling and fell down before him, and told him the whole truth.
And he said to her, “Daughter, your faith has made you well; go in peace, and be healed of your disease.”
While he was still speaking, there came from the ruler’s house some who said, “Your daughter is dead. Why trouble the Teacher any further?”
But ignoring what they said, Jesus said to the ruler of the synagogue, “Do not fear, only believe.”
And he allowed no one to follow him except Peter and James and John the brother of James.
When they came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, he saw a tumult, and people weeping and wailing loudly.
And when he had entered, he said to them, “Why do you make a tumult and weep? The child is not dead but sleeping.”
And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside, and took the child’s father and mother and those who were with him, and went in where the child was.
Taking her by the hand he said to her, “Tal′itha cu′mi”; which means, “Little girl, I say to you, arise.”
And immediately the girl got up and walked (she was twelve years of age), and they were immediately overcome with amazement.
And he strictly charged them that no one should know this, and told them to give her something to eat.