Welcome those who are weak in faith but not for the purpose of quarreling over opinions.
Some believe in eating anything, while the weak eat only vegetables.
Those who eat must not despise those who abstain, and those who abstain must not pass judgment on those who eat, for God has welcomed them.
Who are you to pass judgment on slaves of another? It is before their own lord that they stand or fall. And they will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make them stand.
Some judge one day to be better than another, while others judge all days to be alike. Let all be fully convinced in their own minds.
Those who observe the day, observe it for the Lord. Also those who eat, eat for the Lord, since they give thanks to God, while those who abstain, abstain for the Lord and give thanks to God.
For we do not live to ourselves, and we do not die to ourselves.
If we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord; so then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord’s.
For to this end Christ died and lived again, so that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living.
Why do you pass judgment on your brother or sister? Or you, why do you despise your brother or sister? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God.
For it is written,“As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me,    and every tongue shall give praise to God.”
So then, each one of us will be held accountable.
Let us therefore no longer pass judgment on one another, but resolve instead never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother or sister.
I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself, but it is unclean for anyone who considers it unclean.
If your brother or sister is distressed by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. Do not let what you eat cause the ruin of one for whom Christ died.
So do not let your good be slandered.
For the kingdom of God is not food and drink but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
The one who serves Christ in this way is acceptable to God and has human approval.
Let us then pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding.
Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong to make someone stumble by what you eat;
it is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that makes your brother or sister stumble.
Hold the conviction that you have as your own before God. Blessed are those who do not condemn themselves because of what they approve.
But those who have doubts are condemned if they eat because they do not act from faith, for whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.