Then Job answered:
“Listen carefully to my words,    and let this be your consolation.
Bear with me, and I will speak;    then after I have spoken, mock on.
As for me, is my complaint addressed to mortals?    Why should I not be impatient?
Look at me and be appalled,    and lay your hand upon your mouth.
When I think of it I am dismayed,    and shuddering seizes my flesh.
Why do the wicked live on,    reach old age, and grow mighty in power?
Their children are established in their presence    and their offspring before their eyes.
Their houses are safe from fear,    and no rod of God is upon them.
Their bull breeds without fail;    their cow calves and never miscarries.
They send out their little ones like a flock,    and their children dance around.
They sing to the tambourine and the lyre    and rejoice to the sound of the pipe.
They spend their days in prosperity,    and in peace they go down to Sheol.
They say to God, ‘Leave us alone!    We do not desire to know your ways.
What is the Almighty, that we should serve him?    And what profit do we get if we pray to him?’
Is not their prosperity indeed their own achievement?    The plans of the wicked are repugnant to me.
“How often is the lamp of the wicked put out?    How often does calamity come upon them?    How often does God distribute pains in his anger?
How often are they like straw before the wind    and like chaff that the storm carries away?
You say, ‘God stores up their iniquity for their children.’    Let it be paid back to them, so that they may know it.
Let their own eyes see their destruction,    and let them drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
For what do they care for their household after them,    when the number of their months is cut off?
Will any teach God knowledge,    seeing that he judges those who are on high?
One dies in full prosperity,    being wholly at ease and secure,
his loins full of milk    and the marrow of his bones moist.
Another dies in bitterness of soul,    never having tasted of good.
They lie down alike in the dust,    and the worms cover them.
“Oh, I know your thoughts    and your schemes to wrong me.
For you say, ‘Where is the house of the prince?    Where is the tent in which the wicked lived?’
Have you not asked those who travel the roads,    and do you not accept their testimony,
that the wicked are spared in the day of calamity    and are rescued in the day of wrath?
Who declares their way to their face,    and who repays them for what they have done?
When they are carried to the grave,    a watch is kept over their tomb.
The clods of the valley are sweet to them;    everyone will follow after,    and those who went before are innumerable.
How then will you comfort me with empty nothings?    There is nothing left of your answers but falsehood.”