“At this also my heart trembles    and leaps out of its place.
Listen, listen to the thunder of his voice    and the rumbling that comes from his mouth.
Under the whole heaven he lets it loose,    and his lightning to the corners of the earth.
After it his voice roars;    he thunders with his majestic voice,    and he does not restrain the lightnings when his voice is heard.
God thunders wondrously with his voice;    he does great things that we cannot comprehend.
For to the snow he says, ‘Fall on the earth’;    and the shower of rain, his heavy shower of rain,
serves as a sign on everyone’s hand,    so that all whom he has made may know it.
Then the animals go into their lairs    and remain in their dens.
From its chamber comes the whirlwind    and cold from the scattering winds.
By the breath of God ice is given,    and the broad waters are frozen fast.
He loads the thick cloud with moisture;    the clouds scatter his lightning.
They turn round and round by his guidance    to accomplish all that he commands them    on the face of the habitable world.
Whether for correction or for his land    or for love, he causes it to happen.
“Hear this, O Job;    stop and consider the wondrous works of God.
Do you know how God lays his command upon them    and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
Do you know the balancings of the clouds,    the wondrous works of the one whose knowledge is perfect,
you whose garments are hot    when the earth is still because of the south wind?
Can you, like him, spread out the skies,    hard as a molten mirror?
Teach us what we shall say to him;    we cannot draw up our case because of darkness.
Should he be told that I want to speak?    Did anyone ever wish to be swallowed up?
Now, no one can look on the light    when it is bright in the skies,    when the wind has passed and cleared them.
Out of the north comes golden splendor;    around God is awesome majesty.
The Almighty—we cannot find him;    he is great in power and justice,    and abundant righteousness he will not violate.
Therefore mortals fear him;    he does not regard any who are wise in their own conceit.”