“Call now; is there anyone who will answer you?To which of the holy ones will you turn?
Surely vexation kills the fool,    and jealousy slays the simple.
I have seen fools taking root,    but suddenly I cursed their dwelling.
Their children are far from safety,    they are crushed in the gate,    and there is no one to deliver them.
The hungry eat their harvest,    and they take it even out of the thorns,    and the thirsty pant after their wealth.
For misery does not come from the earth,    nor does trouble sprout from the ground,
but humans are born to trouble    just as sparks fly upward.
“As for me, I would seek God,    and to God I would commit my cause.
He does great things and unsearchable,    marvelous things without number.
He gives rain on the earth    and sends waters on the fields;
he sets on high those who are lowly,    and those who mourn are lifted to safety.
He frustrates the devices of the crafty,    so that their hands achieve no success.
He takes the wise in their own craftiness,    and the schemes of the wily are brought to a quick end.
They meet with darkness in the daytime    and grope at noonday as in the night.
But he saves the needy from the sword of their mouth,    from the hand of the mighty.
So the poor have hope,    and injustice shuts its mouth.
“How happy is the one whom God reproves;    therefore do not despise the discipline of the Almighty.
For he wounds, but he binds up;    he strikes, but his hands heal.
He will deliver you from six troubles;    in seven no harm shall touch you.
In famine he will redeem you from death    and in war from the power of the sword.
You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue    and shall not fear destruction when it comes.
At destruction and famine you shall laugh    and shall not fear the wild animals of the earth.
For you shall be in league with the stones of the field,    and the wild animals shall be at peace with you.
You shall know that your tent is safe;    you shall inspect your fold and miss nothing.
You shall know that your descendants will be many    and your offspring like the grass of the earth.
You shall come to your grave in ripe old age,    as a shock of grain comes up to the threshing floor in its season.
See, we have searched this out; it is true.    Hear, and know it for yourself.”