How lonely sits the city    that once was full of people!How like a widow she has become,    she that was great among the nations!She that was a princess among the provinces    has become subject to forced labor.
She weeps bitterly in the night,    with tears on her cheeks;among all her lovers,    she has no one to comfort her;all her friends have dealt treacherously with her;    they have become her enemies.
Judah has gone into exile with suffering    and hard servitude;she lives now among the nations;    she finds no resting place;her pursuers have all overtaken her    in the midst of her distress.
The roads to Zion mourn,    for no one comes to the festivals;all her gates are desolate;    her priests groan;her young girls grieve,    and her lot is bitter.
Her foes have become the masters;    her enemies prosperbecause the Lord has made her suffer    for the multitude of her transgressions;her children have gone away,    captives before the foe.
From daughter Zion has departed    all her majesty.Her princes have become like stags    that find no pasture;they fled without strength    before the pursuer.
Jerusalem remembers all the precious things    that were hers in days of old.When her people fell into the hand of the enemy    and there was no one to help her,the enemy looked on;    they mocked over her downfall.
Jerusalem sinned grievously,    so she has become a filthy thing;all who honored her despise her,    for they have seen her nakedness;she herself groans    and turns her face away.
Her uncleanness was in her skirts;    she took no thought of her future;her downfall was appalling,    with none to comfort her.Look, O Lord, at my affliction,    for the enemy has triumphed!
Enemies have stretched out their hands    over all her precious things;she has even seen the nations    invade her sanctuary,those whom you forbade    to enter your congregation.
All her people groan    as they search for bread;they trade their treasures for food    to revive their lives.Look, O Lord, and see    how worthless I have become.
Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by?    Look and seeif there is any sorrow like my sorrow,    which was brought upon me,which the Lord inflicted    on the day of his fierce anger.
From on high he sent fire;    it went deep into my bones;he spread a net for my feet;    he turned me back;he has left me stunned,    faint all day long.
My transgressions were bound into a yoke;    by his hand they were fastened together;they weigh on my neck,    sapping my strength;the Lord handed me over    to those whom I cannot withstand.
The Lord has rejected    all my warriors in the midst of me;he proclaimed a time against me    to crush my young men;the Lord has trodden as in a winepress    the virgin daughter Judah.
For these things I weep;    my eyes flow with tears;for a comforter is far from me,    one to revive my courage;my children are desolate,    for the enemy has prevailed.
Zion stretches out her hands,    but there is no one to comfort her;the Lord has commanded against Jacob    that his neighbors should become his foes;Jerusalem has become    a filthy thing among them.
The Lord is in the right,    for I have rebelled against his word;but hear, all you peoples,    and behold my suffering;my young women and young men    have gone into captivity.
I called to my lovers,    but they deceived me;my priests and elders    perished in the citywhile seeking food    to revive their lives.
Look, O Lord, at how distressed I am;    my stomach churns;my heart is wrung within me    because I have been very rebellious.In the street the sword bereaves;    in the house it is like death.
They heard how I was groaning,    with no one to comfort me.All my enemies heard of my trouble;    they are glad that you have done it.Bring on the day that you have announced,    and let them be as I am.
Let all their evildoing come before you,    and deal with themas you have dealt with me    because of all my transgressions;for my groans are many,    and my heart is faint.