I am one who has seen affliction    under the rod of God’s wrath;
he has driven and brought me    into darkness without any light;
against me alone he turns his hand,    again and again, all day long.
He has made my flesh and my skin waste away;    he has broken my bones;
he has besieged and enveloped me    with bitterness and tribulation;
he has made me sit in darkness    like the dead of long ago.
He has walled me about so that I cannot escape;    he has put heavy chains on me;
though I call and cry for help,    he shuts out my prayer;
he has blocked my ways with hewn stones;    he has made my paths crooked.
He is a bear lying in wait for me,    a lion in hiding;
he led me off my way and tore me to pieces;    he has made me desolate;
he bent his bow and set me    as a mark for his arrow.
He shot into my vitals    the arrows of his quiver;
I have become the laughingstock of all my people,    the object of their taunt songs all day long.
He has filled me with bitterness;    he has sated me with wormwood.
He has made my teeth grind on gravel;    he has made me cower in ashes;
my soul is bereft of peace;    I have forgotten what happiness is;
so I say, “Gone is my glory    and all that I had hoped for from the Lord.”
The thought of my affliction and my homelessness    is wormwood and gall!
My soul continually thinks of it    and is bowed down within me.
But this I call to mind,    and therefore I have hope:
The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases,    his mercies never come to an end;
they are new every morning;    great is your faithfulness.
“The Lord is my portion,” says my soul,    “therefore I will hope in him.”
The Lord is good to those who wait for him,    to the soul that seeks him.
It is good that one should wait quietly    for the salvation of the Lord.
It is good for one to bear    the yoke in youth,
to sit alone in silence    when the Lord has imposed it,
to put one’s mouth to the dust    (there may yet be hope),
to give one’s cheek to the smiter    and be filled with insults.
For the Lord will not    reject forever.
Although he causes grief, he will have compassion    according to the abundance of his steadfast love;
for he does not willingly afflict    or grieve anyone.
When all the prisoners of the land    are crushed under foot,
when justice is perverted    in the presence of the Most High,
when one’s case is subverted—    does the Lord not see it?
Who can command and have it done,    if the Lord has not ordained it?
Is it not from the mouth of the Most High    that evil and good come?
Why should any who draw breath complain    about the punishment of their sins?
Let us test and examine our ways    and return to the Lord.
Let us lift up our hearts as well as our hands    to God in heaven.
We have transgressed and rebelled,    and you have not forgiven.
You have wrapped yourself with anger and pursued us,    killing without pity;
you have wrapped yourself with a cloud    so that no prayer can pass through.
You have made us filth and rubbish    among the peoples.
All our enemies    have opened their mouths against us;
panic and pitfall have come upon us,    devastation and destruction.
My eyes flow with rivers of tears    because of the destruction of my people.
My eyes will flow without ceasing,    without respite,
until the Lord from heaven    looks down and sees.
My eyes cause me grief    at the fate of all the young women in my city.
Those who were my enemies without cause    have hunted me like a bird;
they flung me alive into a pit    and hurled stones on me;
water closed over my head;    I said, “I am lost.”
I called on your name, O Lord,    from the depths of the pit;
you heard my plea, “Do not close your ear    to my cry for help, but give me relief!”
You came near when I called on you;    you said, “Do not fear!”
You have taken up my cause, O Lord;    you have redeemed my life.
You have seen the wrong done to me, O Lord;    judge my cause.
You have seen all their malice,    all their plots against me.
You have heard their taunts, O Lord,    all their plots against me.
The whispers and murmurs of my assailants    are against me all day long.
Whether they sit or rise—see,    I am the object of their taunt songs.
Pay them back for their deeds, O Lord,    according to the work of their hands!
Give them anguish of heart;    your curse be on them!
Pursue them in anger and destroy them    from under the Lord’s heavens.