The lot for the tribe of the people of Judah according to their families reached southward to the boundary of Edom, to the wilderness of Zin at the farthest south.
And their south boundary ran from the end of the Salt Sea, from the bay that faces southward;
it goes out southward of the ascent of Akrab′bim, passes along to Zin, and goes up south of Ka′desh-bar′nea, along by Hezron, up to Addar, turns about to Karka,
passes along to Azmon, goes out by the Brook of Egypt, and comes to its end at the sea. This shall be your south boundary.
And the east boundary is the Salt Sea, to the mouth of the Jordan. And the boundary on the north side runs from the bay of the sea at the mouth of the Jordan;
and the boundary goes up to Beth-hoglah, and passes along north of Beth-arabah; and the boundary goes up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben;
and the boundary goes up to Debir from the Valley of Achor, and so northward, turning toward Gilgal, which is opposite the ascent of Adum′mim, which is on the south side of the valley; and the boundary passes along to the waters of En-she′mesh, and ends at En-ro′gel;
then the boundary goes up by the valley of the son of Hinnom at the southern shoulder of the Jeb′usite (that is, Jerusalem); and the boundary goes up to the top of the mountain that lies over against the valley of Hinnom, on the west, at the northern end of the valley of Reph′aim;
then the boundary extends from the top of the mountain to the spring of the Waters of Nephto′ah, and from there to the cities of Mount Ephron; then the boundary bends round to Ba′alah (that is, Kir′iath-je′arim);
and the boundary circles west of Ba′alah to Mount Se′ir, passes along to the northern shoulder of Mount Je′arim (that is, Ches′alon), and goes down to Beth-she′mesh, and passes along by Timnah;
the boundary goes out to the shoulder of the hill north of Ekron, then the boundary bends round to Shik′keron, and passes along to Mount Ba′alah, and goes out to Jabneel; then the boundary comes to an end at the sea.
And the west boundary was the Great Sea with its coast-line. This is the boundary round about the people of Judah according to their families.
According to the commandment of the Lord to Joshua, he gave to Caleb the son of Jephun′neh a portion among the people of Judah, Kir′iath-ar′ba, that is, Hebron (Arba was the father of Anak).
And Caleb drove out from there the three sons of Anak, She′shai and Ahi′man and Talmai, the descendants of Anak.
And he went up from there against the inhabitants of Debir; now the name of Debir formerly was Kir′iath-se′pher.
And Caleb said, “Whoever smites Kir′iath-se′pher, and takes it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.”
And Oth′ni-el the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
When she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field; and she alighted from her ass, and Caleb said to her, “What do you wish?”
She said to him, “Give me a present; since you have set me in the land of the Negeb, give me also springs of water.” And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Judah according to their families.
The cities belonging to the tribe of the people of Judah in the extreme South, toward the boundary of Edom, were Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur,
Kinah, Dimo′nah, Ada′dah,
Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan,
Ziph, Telem, Be-a′loth,
Ha′zor-hadat′tah, Ker′i-oth-hezron (that is, Hazor),
Amam, Shema, Mola′dah,
Ha′zar-gad′dah, Heshmon, Beth-pe′let,
Hazar-shu′al, Beer-sheba, Biziothi′ah,
Ba′alah, I′im, Ezem,
Elto′lad, Chesil, Hormah,
Ziklag, Madman′nah, Sansan′nah,
Leba′oth, Shilhim, A′in, and Rimmon: in all, twenty-nine cities, with their villages.
And in the lowland, Eshta′ol, Zorah, Ashnah,
Zano′ah, En-gan′nim, Tap′puah, Enam,
Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Aze′kah,
Sha-ara′im, Aditha′im, Gede′rah, Gederotha′im: fourteen cities with their villages.
Zenan, Hadash′ah, Mig′dal-gad,
Di′lean, Mizpeh, Jok′theel,
Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon,
Cabbon, Lahmam, Chitlish,
Gede′roth, Beth-da′gon, Na′amah, and Makke′dah: sixteen cities with their villages.
Libnah, Ether, Ashan,
Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib,
Kei′lah, Achzib, and Mare′shah: nine cities with their villages.
Ekron, with its towns and its villages;
from Ekron to the sea, all that were by the side of Ashdod, with their villages.
Ashdod, its towns and its villages; Gaza, its towns and its villages; to the Brook of Egypt, and the Great Sea with its coast-line.
And in the hill country, Shamir, Jattir, Socoh,
Dannah, Kir′iath-san′nah (that is, Debir),
Anab, Esh′temoh, Anim,
Goshen, Holon, and Giloh: eleven cities with their villages.
Arab, Dumah, Eshan,
Janim, Beth-tap′puah, Aphe′kah,
Humtah, Kir′iath-ar′ba (that is, Hebron), and Zi′or: nine cities with their villages.
Ma′on, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah,
Jezreel, Jok′de-am, Zano′ah,
Kain, Gib′e-ah, and Timnah: ten cities with their villages.
Halhul, Beth-zur, Gedor,
Ma′arath, Beth-anoth, and El′tekon: six cities with their villages.
Kir′iath-ba′al (that is, Kir′iath-je′arim), and Rabbah: two cities with their villages.
In the wilderness, Beth-arabah, Middin, Seca′cah,
Nibshan, the City of Salt, and En-ge′di: six cities with their villages.
But the Jeb′usites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the people of Judah could not drive out; so the Jeb′usites dwell with the people of Judah at Jerusalem to this day.