After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and David took Meth′eg-am′mah out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he defeated Moab, and measured them with a line, making them lie down on the ground; two lines he measured to be put to death, and one full line to be spared. And the Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute.
David also defeated Hadade′zer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to restore his power at the river Euphra′tes.
And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers; and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough for a hundred chariots.
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadade′zer king of Zobah, David slew twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians.
Then David put garrisons in Aram of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David and brought tribute. And the Lord gave victory to David wherever he went.
And David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadade′zer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
And from Betah and from Bero′thai, cities of Hadade′zer, King David took very much bronze.
When To′i king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadade′zer,
To′i sent his son Joram to King David, to greet him, and to congratulate him because he had fought against Hadade′zer and defeated him; for Hadade′zer had often been at war with To′i. And Joram brought with him articles of silver, of gold, and of bronze;
these also King David dedicated to the Lord, together with the silver and gold which he dedicated from all the nations he subdued,
from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, Am′alek, and from the spoil of Hadade′zer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
And David won a name for himself. When he returned, he slew eighteen thousand E′domites in the Valley of Salt.
And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom he put garrisons, and all the E′domites became David’s servants. And the Lord gave victory to David wherever he went.
So David reigned over all Israel; and David administered justice and equity to all his people.
And Jo′ab the son of Zeru′iah was over the army; and Jehosh′aphat the son of Ahi′lud was recorder;
and Zadok the son of Ahi′tub and Ahim′elech the son of Abi′athar were priests; and Serai′ah was secretary;
and Benai′ah the son of Jehoi′ada was over the Cher′ethites and the Pel′ethites; and David’s sons were priests.