An Oracle.The word of the Lord is against the land of Hadrach    and will rest upon Damascus.For to the Lord belongs the capital of Aram,    as do all the tribes of Israel;
Hamath also, which borders on it,    Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise.
Tyre has built itself a rampart    and heaped up silver like dust    and gold like the dirt of the streets.
But now, the Lord will strip it of its possessions    and hurl its wealth into the sea,    and it shall be devoured by fire.
Ashkelon shall see it and be afraid;    Gaza, too, and shall writhe in anguish;    Ekron also, because its hopes are withered.The king shall perish from Gaza;    Ashkelon shall be uninhabited;
a mongrel people shall settle in Ashdod,    and I will make an end of the pride of Philistia.
I will take away its blood from its mouth    and its abominations from between its teeth;it, too, shall be a remnant for our God;    it shall be like a clan in Judah,    and Ekron shall be like the Jebusites.
Then I will encamp at my house as a guard,    so that no one shall march to and fro;no oppressor shall again overrun them,    for now I have seen with my own eyes.
Rejoice greatly, O daughter Zion!    Shout aloud, O daughter Jerusalem!See, your king comes to you;    triumphant and victorious is he,humble and riding on a donkey,    on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
He will cut off the chariot from Ephraim    and the war horse from Jerusalem;and the battle bow shall be cut off,    and he shall command peace to the nations;his dominion shall be from sea to sea    and from the River to the ends of the earth.
As for you also, because of the blood of my covenant with you,    I will set your prisoners free from the waterless pit.
Return to your stronghold, O prisoners of hope;    today I declare that I will restore to you double.
For I have bent Judah as my bow;    I have made Ephraim its arrow.I will arouse your sons, O Zion,    against your sons, O Greece,    and wield you like a warrior’s sword.
Then the Lord will appear over them,    and his arrow go forth like lightning;the Lord God will sound the trumpet    and march forth in the whirlwinds of the south.
The Lord of hosts will protect them,    and they shall consume and conquer the slingers;they shall drink their blood like wine    and be full like a bowl,    drenched like the corners of the altar.
On that day the Lord their God will save them,    for they are the flock of his people,for like the jewels of a crown    they shall shine on his land.
For what goodness and beauty are his!    Grain shall make the young men flourish,    and new wine the young women.