“Now these are the ordinances which you shall set before them.
When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing.
If he comes in single, he shall go out single; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him.
If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master’s and he shall go out alone.
But if the slave plainly says, ‘I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,’
then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost; and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall serve him for life.
“When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do.
If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed; he shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has dealt faithlessly with her.
If he designates her for his son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter.
If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights.
And if he does not do these three things for her, she shall go out for nothing, without payment of money.
“Whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall be put to death.
But if he did not lie in wait for him, but God let him fall into his hand, then I will appoint for you a place to which he may flee.
But if a man willfully attacks another to kill him treacherously, you shall take him from my altar, that he may die.
“Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death.
“Whoever steals a man, whether he sells him or is found in possession of him, shall be put to death.
“Whoever curses his father or his mother shall be put to death.
“When men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist and the man does not die but keeps his bed,
then if the man rises again and walks abroad with his staff, he that struck him shall be clear; only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall have him thoroughly healed.
“When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be punished.
But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be punished; for the slave is his money.
“When men strive together, and hurt a woman with child, so that there is a miscarriage, and yet no harm follows, the one who hurt her shall be fined, according as the woman’s husband shall lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine.
If any harm follows, then you shall give life for life,
eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
“When a man strikes the eye of his slave, male or female, and destroys it, he shall let the slave go free for the eye’s sake.
If he knocks out the tooth of his slave, male or female, he shall let the slave go free for the tooth’s sake.
“When an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be clear.
But if the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has been warned but has not kept it in, and it kills a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death.
If a ransom is laid on him, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is laid upon him.
If it gores a man’s son or daughter, he shall be dealt with according to this same rule.
If the ox gores a slave, male or female, the owner shall give to their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.
“When a man leaves a pit open, or when a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or an ass falls into it,
the owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money to its owner, and the dead beast shall be his.
“When one man’s ox hurts another’s, so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and divide the price of it; and the dead beast also they shall divide.
Or if it is known that the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall pay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be his.