The Lord said to Moses, “Cut two tables of stone like the first; and I will write upon the tables the words that were on the first tables, which you broke.
Be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain.
No man shall come up with you, and let no man be seen throughout all the mountain; let no flocks or herds feed before that mountain.”
So Moses cut two tables of stone like the first; and he rose early in the morning and went up on Mount Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him, and took in his hand two tables of stone.
And the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the Lord.
The Lord passed before him, and proclaimed, “The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness,
keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but who will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children’s children, to the third and the fourth generation.”
And Moses made haste to bow his head toward the earth, and worshiped.
And he said, “If now I have found favor in thy sight, O Lord, let the Lord, I pray thee, go in the midst of us, although it is a stiff-necked people; and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thy inheritance.”
And he said, “Behold, I make a covenant. Before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been wrought in all the earth or in any nation; and all the people among whom you are shall see the work of the Lord; for it is a terrible thing that I will do with you.
“Observe what I command you this day. Behold, I will drive out before you the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Per′izzites, the Hivites, and the Jeb′usites.
Take heed to yourself, lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither you go, lest it become a snare in the midst of you.
You shall tear down their altars, and break their pillars, and cut down their Ashe′rim
(for you shall worship no other god, for the Lord, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God),
lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and when they play the harlot after their gods and sacrifice to their gods and one invites you, you eat of his sacrifice,
and you take of their daughters for your sons, and their daughters play the harlot after their gods and make your sons play the harlot after their gods.
“You shall make for yourself no molten gods.
“The feast of unleavened bread you shall keep. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, at the time appointed in the month Abib; for in the month Abib you came out from Egypt.
All that opens the womb is mine, all your male cattle, the firstlings of cow and sheep.
The firstling of an ass you shall redeem with a lamb, or if you will not redeem it you shall break its neck. All the first-born of your sons you shall redeem. And none shall appear before me empty.
“Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest.
And you shall observe the feast of weeks, the first fruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year’s end.
Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord God, the God of Israel.
For I will cast out nations before you, and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire your land, when you go up to appear before the Lord your God three times in the year.
“You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left until the morning.
The first of the first fruits of your ground you shall bring to the house of the Lord your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother’s milk.”
And the Lord said to Moses, “Write these words; in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel.”
And he was there with the Lord forty days and forty nights; he neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
When Moses came down from Mount Sinai, with the two tables of the testimony in his hand as he came down from the mountain, Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone because he had been talking with God.
And when Aaron and all the people of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him.
But Moses called to them; and Aaron and all the leaders of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them.
And afterward all the people of Israel came near, and he gave them in commandment all that the Lord had spoken with him in Mount Sinai.
And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil on his face;
but whenever Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he took the veil off, until he came out; and when he came out, and told the people of Israel what he was commanded,
the people of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses’ face shone; and Moses would put the veil upon his face again, until he went in to speak with him.