Now Eli′jah the Tishbite, of Tishbe in Gilead, said to Ahab, “As the Lord the God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there shall be neither dew nor rain these years, except by my word.”
And the word of the Lord came to him,
“Depart from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, that is east of the Jordan.
You shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.”
So he went and did according to the word of the Lord; he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith that is east of the Jordan.
And the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening; and he drank from the brook.
And after a while the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land.
Then the word of the Lord came to him,
“Arise, go to Zar′ephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow there to feed you.”
So he arose and went to Zar′ephath; and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks; and he called to her and said, “Bring me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.”
And as she was going to bring it, he called to her and said, “Bring me a morsel of bread in your hand.”
And she said, “As the Lord your God lives, I have nothing baked, only a handful of meal in a jar, and a little oil in a cruse; and now, I am gathering a couple of sticks, that I may go in and prepare it for myself and my son, that we may eat it, and die.”
And Eli′jah said to her, “Fear not; go and do as you have said; but first make me a little cake of it and bring it to me, and afterward make for yourself and your son.
For thus says the Lord the God of Israel, ‘The jar of meal shall not be spent, and the cruse of oil shall not fail, until the day that the Lord sends rain upon the earth.’”
And she went and did as Eli′jah said; and she, and he, and her household ate for many days.
The jar of meal was not spent, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord which he spoke by Eli′jah.
After this the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill; and his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him.
And she said to Eli′jah, “What have you against me, O man of God? You have come to me to bring my sin to remembrance, and to cause the death of my son!”
And he said to her, “Give me your son.” And he took him from her bosom, and carried him up into the upper chamber, where he lodged, and laid him upon his own bed.
And he cried to the Lord, “O Lord my God, hast thou brought calamity even upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her son?”
Then he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried to the Lord, “O Lord my God, let this child’s soul come into him again.”
And the Lord hearkened to the voice of Eli′jah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived.
And Eli′jah took the child, and brought him down from the upper chamber into the house, and delivered him to his mother; and Eli′jah said, “See, your son lives.”
And the woman said to Eli′jah, “Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord in your mouth is truth.”