He was praying in a certain place, and when he ceased, one of his disciples said to him, “Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples.”
And he said to them, “When you pray, say:“Father, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come.
Give us each day our daily bread;
and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive every one who is indebted to us; and lead us not into temptation.”
And he said to them, “Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves;
for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him’;
and he will answer from within, ‘Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot get up and give you anything’?
I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him whatever he needs.
And I tell you, Ask, and it will be given you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
For every one who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened.
What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent;
or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?
If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!”
Now he was casting out a demon that was dumb; when the demon had gone out, the dumb man spoke, and the people marveled.
But some of them said, “He casts out demons by Be-el′zebul, the prince of demons”;
while others, to test him, sought from him a sign from heaven.
But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls.
And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Be-el′zebul.
And if I cast out demons by Be-el′zebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges.
But if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you.
When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are in peace;
but when one stronger than he assails him and overcomes him, he takes away his armor in which he trusted, and divides his spoil.
He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters.
“When the unclean spirit has gone out of a man, he passes through waterless places seeking rest; and finding none he says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’
And when he comes he finds it swept and put in order.
Then he goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter and dwell there; and the last state of that man becomes worse than the first.”
As he said this, a woman in the crowd raised her voice and said to him, “Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts that you sucked!”
But he said, “Blessed rather are those who hear the word of God and keep it!”
When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, “This generation is an evil generation; it seeks a sign, but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of Jonah.
For as Jonah became a sign to the men of Nin′eveh, so will the Son of man be to this generation.
The queen of the South will arise at the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here.
The men of Nin′eveh will arise at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.
“No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a bushel, but on a stand, that those who enter may see the light.
Your eye is the lamp of your body; when your eye is sound, your whole body is full of light; but when it is not sound, your body is full of darkness.
Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness.
If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with its rays gives you light.”
While he was speaking, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him; so he went in and sat at table.
The Pharisee was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner.
And the Lord said to him, “Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside you are full of extortion and wickedness.
You fools! Did not he who made the outside make the inside also?
But give for alms those things which are within; and behold, everything is clean for you.
“But woe to you Pharisees! for you tithe mint and rue and every herb, and neglect justice and the love of God; these you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
Woe to you Pharisees! for you love the best seat in the synagogues and salutations in the market places.
Woe to you! for you are like graves which are not seen, and men walk over them without knowing it.”
One of the lawyers answered him, “Teacher, in saying this you reproach us also.”
And he said, “Woe to you lawyers also! for you load men with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Woe to you! for you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed.
So you are witnesses and consent to the deeds of your fathers; for they killed them, and you build their tombs.
Therefore also the Wisdom of God said, ‘I will send them prophets and apostles, some of whom they will kill and persecute,’
that the blood of all the prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation,
from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechari′ah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. Yes, I tell you, it shall be required of this generation.
Woe to you lawyers! for you have taken away the key of knowledge; you did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering.”
As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard, and to provoke him to speak of many things,
lying in wait for him, to catch at something he might say.