In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tibe′ri-us Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Iturae′a and Trachoni′tis, and Lysa′ni-as tetrarch of Abile′ne,
in the high-priesthood of Annas and Ca′iaphas, the word of God came to John the son of Zechari′ah in the wilderness;
and he went into all the region about the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
As it is written in the book of the words of Isaiah the prophet,“The voice of one crying in the wilderness:Prepare the way of the Lord,make his paths straight.
Every valley shall be filled,and every mountain and hill shall be brought low,and the crooked shall be made straight,and the rough ways shall be made smooth;
and all flesh shall see the salvation of God.”
He said therefore to the multitudes that came out to be baptized by him, “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Bear fruits that befit repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father’; for I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children to Abraham.
Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees; every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.”
And the multitudes asked him, “What then shall we do?”
And he answered them, “He who has two coats, let him share with him who has none; and he who has food, let him do likewise.”
Tax collectors also came to be baptized, and said to him, “Teacher, what shall we do?”
And he said to them, “Collect no more than is appointed you.”
Soldiers also asked him, “And we, what shall we do?” And he said to them, “Rob no one by violence or by false accusation, and be content with your wages.”
As the people were in expectation, and all men questioned in their hearts concerning John, whether perhaps he were the Christ,
John answered them all, “I baptize you with water; but he who is mightier than I is coming, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie; he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and with fire.
His winnowing fork is in his hand, to clear his threshing floor, and to gather the wheat into his granary, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.”
So, with many other exhortations, he preached good news to the people.
But Herod the tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Hero′di-as, his brother’s wife, and for all the evil things that Herod had done,
added this to them all, that he shut up John in prison.
Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heaven was opened,
and the Holy Spirit descended upon him in bodily form, as a dove, and a voice came from heaven, “Thou art my beloved Son; with thee I am well pleased.”
Jesus, when he began his ministry, was about thirty years of age, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jan′na-i, the son of Joseph,
the son of Mattathi′as, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Nag′ga-i,
the son of Ma′ath, the son of Mattathi′as, the son of Sem′e-in, the son of Josech, the son of Joda,
the son of Jo-an′an, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zerub′babel, the son of She-al′ti-el, the son of Neri,
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elma′dam, the son of Er,
the son of Joshua, the son of Elie′zer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eli′akim,
the son of Me′le-a, the son of Menna, the son of Mat′tatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Bo′az, the son of Sala, the son of Nahshon,
the son of Ammin′adab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
the son of Serug, the son of Re′u, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah,
the son of Ca-i′nan, the son of Arphax′ad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
the son of Methu′selah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Maha′lale-el, the son of Ca-i′nan,
the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.