The vision of Isaiah son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Hear, O heavens, and listen, O earth,    for the Lord has spoken:I reared children and brought them up,    but they have rebelled against me.
The ox knows its owner    and the donkey its master’s crib,but Israel does not know;    my people do not understand.
Woe, sinful nation,    people laden with iniquity,offspring who do evil,    children who act corruptly,who have forsaken the Lord,    who have despised the Holy One of Israel,    [[who are utterly estranged!]]
Why do you seek further beatings?    Why do you continue to rebel?The whole head is injured,    and the whole heart faint.
From the sole of the foot to the head,    there is no soundness in it,only bruises and sores    and bleeding wounds;they have not been drained or bound up    or softened with oil.
Your country lies desolate;    your cities are burned with fire;in your very presence    aliens devour your land;    it is desolate, as overthrown by foreigners.
And daughter Zion is left    like a booth in a vineyard,like a shelter in a cucumber field,    like a besieged city.
If the Lord of hosts    had not left us a few survivors,we would have been like Sodom    and become like Gomorrah.
Hear the word of the Lord,    you rulers of Sodom!Listen to the teaching of our God,    you people of Gomorrah!
What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices?    says the Lord;I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams    and the fat of fed beasts;I do not delight in the blood of bulls    or of lambs or of goats.
When you come to appear before me,    who asked this from your hand?    Trample my courts no more!
Bringing offerings is futile;    incense is an abomination to me.New moon and Sabbath and calling of convocation—    I cannot endure solemn assemblies with iniquity.
Your new moons and your appointed festivals    my soul hates;they have become a burden to me;    I am weary of bearing them.
When you stretch out your hands,    I will hide my eyes from you;even though you make many prayers,    I will not listen;    your hands are full of blood.
Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean;    remove your evil deeds    from before my eyes;cease to do evil;
learn to do good;seek justice;    rescue the oppressed;defend the orphan;    plead for the widow.
Come now, let us argue it out,    says the Lord:If your sins are like scarlet,    will they become like snow?If they are red like crimson,    will they become like wool?
If you are willing and obedient,    you shall eat the good of the land,
but if you refuse and rebel,    you shall be devoured by the sword,    for the mouth of the Lord has spoken.
How the faithful city    has become a prostitute!    She that was full of justice,righteousness lodged in her—    but now murderers!
Your silver has become dross;    your wine is mixed with water.
Your princes are rebels    and companions of thieves.Everyone loves a bribe    and runs after gifts.They do not defend the orphan,    and the widow’s cause does not come before them.
Therefore says the Sovereign, the Lord of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel:Surely I will pour out my wrath on my enemies    and avenge myself on my foes!
I will turn my hand against you;    I will smelt away your dross as with lye    and remove all your alloy.
And I will restore your judges as at the first    and your counselors as at the beginning.Afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness,    the faithful city.
Zion shall be redeemed by justice,    and those in her who repent, by righteousness.
But rebels and sinners shall be destroyed together,    and those who forsake the Lord shall be consumed.
For you shall be ashamed of the oaks    in which you delighted,and you shall blush for the gardens    that you have chosen.
For you shall be like an oak    whose leaf withers    and like a garden without water.
The strong shall become like tinder    and their work like a spark;they and their work shall burn together,    with no one to quench them.