Woe to those who make iniquitous decrees,    who write oppressive statutes,
to turn aside the needy from justice    and to rob the poor of my people of their right,to make widows their spoil    and to plunder orphans!
What will you do on the day of punishment,    in the calamity that will come from far away?To whom will you flee for help,    and where will you leave your wealth,
so as not to crouch among the prisoners    or fall among the slain?For all this his anger has not turned away;    his hand is stretched out still.
Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger—    the club in their hands is my fury!
Against a godless nation I send him,    and against the people of my wrath I command him,to take spoil and seize plunder,    and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.
But this is not what he intends,    nor does he have this in mind,but it is in his heart to destroy    and to cut off nations not a few.
For he says:“Are not my commanders all kings?
Is not Calno like Carchemish?    Is not Hamath like Arpad?    Is not Samaria like Damascus?
As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols    whose images were greater than those of Jerusalem and Samaria,
shall I not do to Jerusalem and her idols    what I have done to Samaria and her images?”
When the Lord has finished all his work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, he will punish the arrogant boasting of the king of Assyria and his haughty pride.
For he says:“By the strength of my hand I have done it,    and by my wisdom, for I have understanding;I have removed the boundaries of peoples    and have plundered their treasures;    like a bull I have brought down those who sat on thrones.
My hand has found, like a nest,    the wealth of the peoples,and as one gathers eggs that have been forsaken,    so I have gathered all the earth,and there was none that moved a wing    or opened its mouth or chirped.”
Shall the ax vaunt itself over the one who wields it    or the saw magnify itself against the one who handles it?As if a rod should raise the one who lifts it up,    or as if a staff should lift the one who is not wood!
Therefore the Sovereign, the Lord of hosts,    will send wasting sickness among his stout warriors,and under his glory a burning will be kindled    like the burning of fire.
The light of Israel will become a fire    and his Holy One a flame,and it will burn and devour    his thorns and briers in one day.
The glory of his forest and his fruitful land    the Lord will destroy, both soul and body,    and it will be as when an invalid wastes away.
The remnant of the trees of his forest will be so few    that a child can write them down.
On that day the remnant of Israel and the survivors of the house of Jacob will no longer lean on the one who struck them but will lean on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.
A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.
For though your people, O Israel, were like the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will return. Destruction is decreed, an overwhelming verdict.
For the Lord God of hosts will make a full end, as decreed, in all the earth.
Therefore thus says the Lord God of hosts: “O my people who live in Zion, do not be afraid of the Assyrians when they beat you with a rod and lift up their staff against you as the Egyptians did.
For in a very little while my indignation will come to an end, and my anger will be directed to their destruction.”
The Lord of hosts will wield a whip against them, as when he struck Midian at the rock of Oreb; his staff will be over the sea, and he will lift it as he did in Egypt.
On that day his burden will be removed from your shoulder, and his yoke will be destroyed from your neck.He has gone up from Samaria;
he has come to Aiath;he has passed through Migron;    at Michmash he stores his baggage;
they have crossed over the pass;    at Geba they lodge for the night;Ramah trembles;    Gibeah of Saul has fled.
Cry aloud, O daughter Gallim!    Listen, O Laishah!    Answer her, O Anathoth!
Madmenah is in flight;    the inhabitants of Gebim flee for safety.
This very day he will halt at Nob;    he will shake his fist    at the mount of daughter Zion,    the hill of Jerusalem.
Look, the Sovereign, the Lord of hosts,    will lop the boughs with terrifying power;the tallest trees will be cut down,    and the lofty will be brought low.
He will hack down the thickets of the forest with an ax,    and Lebanon with its majestic trees will fall.