The oracle concerning Babylon that Isaiah son of Amoz saw.
On a bare hill raise a signal;    cry aloud to them;wave the hand for them to enter    the gates of the nobles.
I myself have commanded my consecrated ones,    have summoned my warriors, my proudly exulting ones,    to execute my anger.
Listen, a tumult on the mountains    as of a great multitude!Listen, an uproar of kingdoms,    of nations gathering together!The Lord of hosts is mustering    an army for battle.
They come from a distant land,    from the end of the heavens,the Lord and the weapons of his indignation,    to destroy the whole earth.
Wail, for the day of the Lord is near;    it will come like destruction from the Almighty!
Therefore all hands will be feeble,    and every human heart will melt,
and they will be terrified.Pangs and agony will seize them;    they will be in anguish like a woman in labor.They will look aghast at one another;    their faces will be aflame.
See, the day of the Lord is coming,    cruel, with wrath and fierce anger,to make the earth a desolation    and to destroy its sinners from it.
For the stars of the heavens and their constellations    will not give their light;the sun will be dark at its rising,    and the moon will not shed its light.
I will punish the world for its evil    and the wicked for their iniquity;I will put an end to the pride of the arrogant    and lay low the insolence of tyrants.
I will make mortals more rare than fine gold    and humans than the gold of Ophir.
Therefore I will make the heavens tremble,    and the earth will be shaken out of its placeat the wrath of the Lord of hosts    in the day of his fierce anger.
Like a gazelle on the run    or like sheep with no one to gather them,all will turn back to their own people,    and all will flee to their own lands.
Whoever is found will be thrust through,    and whoever is caught will fall by the sword.
Their infants will be dashed to pieces    before their eyes;their houses will be plundered    and their wives raped.
See, I am stirring up the Medes against them,    who have no regard for silver    and do not delight in gold.
Their bows will slaughter the young men;    they will have no mercy on the fruit of the womb;    their eyes will not pity children.
And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms,    the splendor and pride of the Chaldeans,will be like Sodom and Gomorrah    when God overthrew them.
It will never be inhabited    or lived in for all generations;Arabs will not pitch their tents there;    shepherds will not make their flocks lie down there.
But wild animals will lie down there,    and its houses will be full of howling creatures;there ostriches will live,    and there goat-demons will dance.
Hyenas will cry in its towers    and jackals in the pleasant palaces;its time is close at hand;    and its days will not be prolonged.