Woe to the proud garland of the drunkards of Ephraim    and the fading flower of its glorious beauty,    at the head of the fertile valley,    those overcome with wine!
See, the Lord has one who is mighty and strong,    like a storm of hail, a destroying tempest,like a storm of mighty, overflowing waters;    with force he will hurl them down to the earth.
Trampled under foot will be    the proud garland of the drunkards of Ephraim.
And the fading flower of its glorious beauty,    at the head of the fertile valley,will be like a first-ripe fig before the summer;    whoever sees it eats it up    as soon as it comes to hand.
On that day the Lord of hosts will be a garland of glory    and a diadem of beauty to the remnant of his people
and a spirit of justice to the one who sits in judgment    and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate.
These also reel with wine    and stagger with strong drink;the priest and the prophet reel with strong drink;    they are confused with wine;    they stagger with strong drink;they err in vision;    they stumble in giving judgment.
All tables are covered with filthy vomit;    no place is clean.
“Whom will he teach knowledge,    and to whom will he explain the message?Those who are weaned from milk,    those taken from the breast?
For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept,    line upon line, line upon line,    here a little, there a little.”
Truly, with stammering lip    and with another tonguehe will speak to this people,
to whom he has said,“This is rest;    give rest to the weary,and this is repose,”    yet they would not hear.
Therefore the word of the Lord will be to them,    “Precept upon precept, precept upon precept,    line upon line, line upon line,    here a little, there a little,”in order that they may go and fall backward    and be broken and snared and taken.
Therefore hear the word of the Lord, you scoffers    who rule this people in Jerusalem.
Because you have said, “We have made a covenant with death,    and with Sheol we have an agreement;when the overwhelming scourge passes through    it will not come to us,for we have made lies our refuge,    and in falsehood we have taken shelter”;
therefore thus says the Lord God,“See, I am laying in Zion a foundation stone,    a tested stone,a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation:    ‘One who trusts will not panic.’
And I will make justice the line    and righteousness the plummet;hail will sweep away the refuge of lies,    and waters will overwhelm the shelter.
Then your covenant with death will be annulled,    and your agreement with Sheol will not stand;when the overwhelming scourge passes through,    you will be beaten down by it.
As often as it passes through, it will take you,    for morning by morning it will pass through,    by day and by night,and it will be sheer terror to understand the message.”
For the bed is too short to stretch oneself on it,    and the covering is too narrow to wrap oneself in it.
For the Lord will rise up as on Mount Perazim;    he will rage as in the valley of Gibeonto do his deed—strange is his deed!—    and to work his work—alien is his work!
Now therefore do not scoff,    or your bonds will be made stronger,for I have heard a decree of destruction    from the Lord God of hosts upon the whole land.
Listen and hear my voice;    Pay attention and hear my speech.
Do those who plow for sowing plow continually?    Do they continually open and harrow their ground?
When they have leveled its surface,    do they not scatter dill, sow cumin,and plant wheat in rows    and barley in its proper place    and spelt as the border?
For they are well instructed;    their God teaches them.
For dill is not threshed with a threshing sledge,    nor is a cart wheel rolled over cumin,but dill is beaten out with a stick    and cumin with a rod.
Grain is crushed for bread,    but one does not thresh it forever;one drives the cart wheel and horses over it    but does not pulverize it.
This also comes from the Lord of hosts;    he is wonderful in counsel    and excellent in wisdom.