See, a king will reign in righteousness,    and princes will rule with justice.
Each will be like a hiding place from the wind,    a covert from the tempest,like streams of water in a dry place,    like the shade of a great rock in a weary land.
Then the eyes of those who have sight will not be closed,    and the ears of those who have hearing will listen.
The minds of the rash will have good judgment,    and the tongues of stammerers will speak readily and distinctly.
A fool will no longer be called noble    nor a villain said to be honorable.
For fools speak folly,    and their minds plot iniquity:to practice ungodliness,    to utter error concerning the Lord,to leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied,    and to deprive the thirsty of drink.
The villainies of villains are evil;    they devise wicked devicesto ruin the poor with lying words,    even when the plea of the needy is right.
But those who are noble plan noble things,    and by noble things they stand.
Rise up, you women who are at ease, hear my voice;    you complacent daughters, listen to my speech.
In little more than a year    you will shudder, you complacent ones,for the vintage will fail;    the fruit harvest will not come.
Tremble, you women who are at ease;    shudder, you complacent ones;strip and make yourselves bare,    and put sackcloth on your loins.
Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields,    for the fruitful vine,
for the soil of my people    growing up in thorns and briers,yes, for all the joyous houses    in the jubilant city.
For the palace will be forsaken,    the populous city deserted;the hill and the watchtower    will become dens forever,the joy of wild asses,    a pasture for flocks;
until a spirit from on high is poured out on us,    and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field,    and the fruitful field is deemed a forest.
Then justice will dwell in the wilderness    and righteousness abide in the fruitful field.
The effect of righteousness will be peace,    and the result of righteousness, quietness and trust forever.
My people will abide in a peaceful habitation,    in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.
The forest will disappear completely,    and the city will be utterly laid low.
Happy will you be who sow beside every stream,    who let the ox and the donkey range freely.