Thus says the Lord to his anointed, to Cyrus,    whose right hand I have graspedto subdue nations before him    and to strip kings of their robes,to open doors before him—    and the gates shall not be closed:
I will go before you    and level the mountains;I will break in pieces the doors of bronze    and cut through the bars of iron;
I will give you the treasures of darkness    and riches hidden in secret places,so that you may know that it is I, the Lord,    the God of Israel, who call you by your name.
For the sake of my servant Jacob    and Israel my chosen,I call you by your name;    I give you a title, though you do not know me.
I am the Lord, and there is no other;    besides me there is no god.    I arm you, though you do not know me,
so that they may know, from the rising of the sun    and from the west, that there is no one besides me;    I am the Lord, and there is no other.
I form light and create darkness,    I make weal and create woe;    I the Lord do all these things.
Shower, O heavens, from above,    and let the skies rain down righteousness;let the earth open, that salvation may spring up,    and let it cause righteousness to sprout up also;    I the Lord have created it.
Woe to those who strive with their Maker,    earthen vessels with the potter!Does the clay say to the one who fashions it, “What are you making”?    or “Your work has no handles”?
Woe to anyone who says to a father, “What are you fathering?”    or to a woman, “With what are you in labor?”
Thus says the Lord,    the Holy One of Israel and its Maker:Will you question me about my children    or command me concerning the work of my hands?
I made the earth    and created humankind upon it;it was my hands that stretched out the heavens,    and I commanded all their host.
I have aroused Cyrus in righteousness,    and I will make all his paths straight;he shall build my city    and set my exiles free,not for price or reward,    says the Lord of hosts.
Thus says the Lord:The wealth of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush    and the Sabeans, tall of stature,shall come over to you and be yours;    they shall follow you;    they shall come over in chains and bow down to you.They will make supplication to you, saying,    “God is with you alone, and there is no other;    there is no god besides him.”
Truly, you are a God who hides himself,    O God of Israel, the Savior.
All of them are put to shame and confounded;    the makers of idols go in disgrace together.
But Israel is saved by the Lord    with everlasting salvation;you shall not be put to shame or confounded    ever again.
For thus says the Lord,who created the heavens    (he is God!),who formed the earth and made it    (he established it;he did not create it a chaos;    he formed it to be inhabited!):I am the Lord, and there is no other.
I did not speak in secret    in a land of darkness;I did not say to the offspring of Jacob,    “Seek me in chaos.”I the Lord speak the truth;    I declare what is right.
Assemble yourselves and come together;    draw near, you survivors of the nations!They have no knowledge—    those who carry about their wooden idolsand keep on praying to a god    that cannot save.
Declare and present your case;    take counsel together!Who told this long ago?    Who declared it of old?Was it not I, the Lord?    There is no other god besides me,a righteous God and a Savior;    there is no one besides me.
Turn to me and be saved,    all the ends of the earth!    For I am God, and there is no other.
By myself I have sworn;    from my mouth has gone forth in righteousness    a word that shall not return:“To me every knee shall bow,    every tongue shall swear.”
Only in the Lord, it shall be said of me,    are righteousness and strength;all who were incensed against him    shall come to him and be ashamed.
In the Lord all the offspring of Israel    shall triumph and glory.