Awake; awake;    put on your strength, O Zion!Put on your beautiful garments,    O Jerusalem, the holy city,for the uncircumcised and the unclean    shall enter you no more.
Shake yourself from the dust; rise up,    O captive Jerusalem;loose the bonds from your neck,    O captive daughter Zion!
For thus says the Lord: You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money.
For thus says the Lord God: Long ago, my people went down into Egypt to reside there as aliens; the Assyrian, too, has oppressed them without cause.
Now therefore what am I doing here, says the Lord, seeing that my people are taken away without cause? Their rulers howl, says the Lord, and continually, all day long, my name is despised.
Therefore my people shall know my name; on that day they shall know that it is I who speak—it is I!
How beautiful upon the mountains    are the feet of the messenger who announces peace,who brings good news,    who announces salvation,    who says to Zion, “Your God reigns.”
Listen! Your sentinels lift up their voices;    together they shout for joy,for in plain sight they see    the return of the Lord to Zion.
Break forth; shout together for joy,    you ruins of Jerusalem,for the Lord has comforted his people;    he has redeemed Jerusalem.
The Lord has bared his holy arm    before the eyes of all the nations,and all the ends of the earth shall see    the salvation of our God.
Depart, depart, go out from there!    Touch no unclean thing;go out from the midst of it; purify yourselves,    you who carry the vessels of the Lord.
For you shall not go out in haste,    and you shall not go in flight,for the Lord will go before you,    and the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
See, my servant shall prosper;    he shall be exalted and lifted up    and shall be very high.
Just as there were many who were astonished at him    —so marred was his appearance, beyond human semblance,    and his form beyond that of mortals—
so he shall startle many nations;    kings shall shut their mouths because of him,for that which had not been told them they shall see,    and that which they had not heard they shall contemplate.