See, the Lord’s arm is not too short to save,    nor his ear too dull to hear.
Rather, your iniquities have been barriers    between you and your God,and your sins have hidden his face from you    so that he does not hear.
For your hands are defiled with blood    and your fingers with iniquity;your lips have spoken lies;    your tongue mutters wickedness.
No one brings suit justly;    no one goes to law honestly;they rely on empty pleas; they speak lies,    conceiving mischief and bearing iniquity.
They hatch adders’ eggs    and weave the spider’s web;whoever eats their eggs dies,    and the crushed egg hatches out a viper.
Their webs cannot serve as clothing;    they cannot cover themselves with what they make.Their works are works of iniquity,    and deeds of violence are in their hands.
Their feet run to evil,    and they rush to shed innocent blood;their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity;    desolation and destruction are in their highways.
The way of peace they do not know,    and there is no justice in their ways.Their roads they have made crooked;    no one who walks in them knows peace.
Therefore justice is far from us,    and deliverance does not reach us;we wait for light, but there is only darkness;    and for brightness, but we walk in gloom.
We grope like the blind along a wall,    groping like those who have no eyes;we stumble at noon as in the twilight,    among the vigorous as though we were dead.
We all growl like bears;    like doves we moan mournfully.We wait for justice, but there is none;    for salvation, but it is far from us.
For our transgressions before you are many,    and our sins testify against us.Our transgressions indeed are with us,    and we know our iniquities:
transgressing and denying the Lord    and turning away from following our God,talking oppression and revolt,    conceiving lying words and uttering them from the heart.
Justice is turned back,    and deliverance stands at a distance,for truth stumbles in the public square,    and uprightness cannot enter.
Truth is lacking,    and whoever turns from evil is despoiled.The Lord saw it, and it displeased him    that there was no justice.
He saw that there was no one    and was appalled that there was no one to intervene,so his own arm brought him victory,    and his righteousness upheld him.
He put on righteousness like a breastplate    and a helmet of salvation on his head;he put on garments of vengeance for clothing    and wrapped himself in fury as in a mantle.
According to their deeds, so will he repay    wrath to his adversaries, requital to his enemies;    to the coastlands he will render requital.
So those in the west shall fear the name of the Lord,    and those in the east, his glory,for he will come like a pent-up stream    that the wind of the Lord drives on.
And he will come to Zion as Redeemer,    to those in Jacob who turn from transgression, says the Lord.
And as for me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord: my spirit that is upon you and my words that I have put in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth or out of the mouths of your children or out of the mouths of your children’s children, says the Lord, from now on and forever.