Arise, shine, for your light has come,    and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you.
For darkness shall cover the earth    and thick darkness the peoples,but the Lord will arise upon you,    and his glory will appear over you.
Nations shall come to your light    and kings to the brightness of your dawn.
Lift up your eyes and look around;    they all gather together; they come to you;your sons shall come from far away,    and your daughters shall be carried in their nurses’ arms.
Then you shall see and be radiant;    your heart shall thrill and rejoice,because the abundance of the sea shall be brought to you;    the wealth of the nations shall come to you.
A multitude of camels shall cover you,    the young camels of Midian and Ephah;    all those from Sheba shall come.They shall bring gold and frankincense    and shall proclaim the praise of the Lord.
All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered to you;    the rams of Nebaioth shall minister to you;they shall be acceptable on my altar,    and I will glorify my glorious house.
Who are these that fly like a cloud    and like doves to their windows?
For the coastlands shall wait for me,    the ships of Tarshish first,to bring your children from far away,    their silver and gold with them,for the name of the Lord your God    and for the Holy One of Israel,    because he has glorified you.
Foreigners shall build up your walls,    and their kings shall minister to you,for in my wrath I struck you down,    but in my favor I have had mercy on you.
Your gates shall always be open;    day and night they shall not be shut,so that nations shall bring you their wealth,    with their kings led in procession.
For the nation and kingdom    that will not serve you shall perish;    those nations shall be utterly laid waste.
The glory of Lebanon shall come to you,    the cypress, the plane, and the pine,to beautify the place of my sanctuary,    and I will glorify where my feet rest.
The descendants of those who oppressed you    shall come bending low to you,and all who despised you    shall bow down at your feet;they shall call you the City of the Lord,    the Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
Whereas you have been forsaken and hated,    with no one passing through,I will make you majestic forever,    a joy from age to age.
You shall suck the milk of nations;    you shall suck the breasts of kings,and you shall know that I, the Lord, am your Savior    and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.
Instead of bronze I will bring gold;    instead of iron I will bring silver;instead of wood, bronze;    instead of stones, iron.I will appoint Peace as your overseer    and Righteousness as your taskmaster.
Violence shall no more be heard in your land,    devastation or destruction within your borders;you shall call your walls Salvation    and your gates Praise.
The sun shall no longer be    your light by day,nor for brightness shall the moon    give light to you by night,but the Lord will be your everlasting light,    and your God will be your glory.
Your sun shall no more go down    or your moon withdraw itself,for the Lord will be your everlasting light,    and your days of mourning shall be ended.
Your people shall all be righteous;    they shall possess the land forever.They are the shoot that I planted, the work of my hands,    so that I might be glorified.
The least of them shall become a clan    and the smallest one a mighty nation;I am the Lord;    in its time I will accomplish it quickly.