“Who is this coming from Edom,    from Bozrah in garments stained crimson?Who is this so splendidly robed,    marching in his great might?”“It is I, announcing vindication,    mighty to save.”
“Why are your robes red    and your garments like theirs who tread the winepress?”
“I have trodden the winepress alone,    and from the peoples no one was with me;I trod them in my anger    and trampled them in my wrath;their juice spattered on my garments,    and I stained all my robes.
For the day of vengeance was in my mind,    and the year for my redeeming work had come.
I looked, but there was no helper;    I was abandoned, and there was no one to sustain me,so my own arm brought me victory,    and my wrath sustained me.
I trampled down peoples in my anger;    I crushed them in my wrath,    and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth.”
I will recount the gracious deeds of the Lord,    the praiseworthy acts of the Lord,because of all that the Lord has done for us    and the great favor to the house of Israelthat he has shown them according to his mercy,    according to the abundance of his steadfast love.
For he said, “Surely they are my people,    children who will not act deceitfully,”and he became their savior
in all their distress.It was no messenger or angel    but his presence that saved them;in his love and pity it was he who redeemed them;    he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
But they rebelled    and grieved his holy spirit;therefore he became their enemy;    he himself fought against them.
Then they remembered the days of old,    of Moses his servant.Where is the one who brought them up out of the sea    with the shepherds of his flock?Where is the one who put within them    his holy spirit,
who caused his glorious arm    to march at the right hand of Moses,who divided the waters before them    to make for himself an everlasting name,
who led them through the depths?Like a horse in the desert,    they did not stumble.
Like cattle that go down into the valley,    the spirit of the Lord gave them rest.Thus you led your people,    to make for yourself a glorious name.
Look down from heaven and see,    from your holy and glorious habitation.Where are your zeal and your might?    Your great pity and your compassion are withheld from me.
For you are our father,    though Abraham does not know us    and Israel does not acknowledge us;you, O Lord, are our father;    our Redeemer from of old is your name.
Why, O Lord, do you let us stray from your ways    and let our heart harden, so that we do not fear you?Turn back for the sake of your servants,    the tribes that are your heritage.
Your holy people took possession for a little while,    but now our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary.
We have long been like those whom you do not rule,    like those not called by your name.