This is the reason that I, Paul, am a prisoner for Christ Jesus for the sake of you gentiles,
for surely you have already heard of the commission of God’s grace that was given me for you
and how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I wrote above in a few words,
a reading of which will enable you to perceive my understanding of the mystery of Christ.
In former generations this mystery was not made known to humankind, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit:
that is, the gentiles have become fellow heirs, members of the same body, and sharers in the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
Of this gospel I have become a servant according to the gift of God’s grace that was given me by the working of his power.
Although I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to me to bring to the gentiles the news of the boundless riches of Christ
and to make everyone see what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God, who created all things,
so that through the church the wisdom of God in its rich variety might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places.
This was in accordance with the eternal purpose that he has carried out in Christ Jesus our Lord,
in whom we have access in boldness and confidence through faith in him.
I pray, therefore, that you may not lose heart over my sufferings for you; they are your glory.
For this reason I bow my knees before the Father,
from whom every family in heaven and on earth takes its name.
I pray that, according to the riches of his glory, he may grant that you may be strengthened in your inner being with power through his Spirit
and that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, as you are being rooted and grounded in love.
I pray that you may have the power to comprehend, with all the saints, what is the breadth and length and height and depth
and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, so that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.
Now to him who by the power at work within us is able to accomplish abundantly far more than all we can ask or imagine,
to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen.