In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me:
“Son of man, raise a lamentation over Pharaoh king of Egypt, and say to him:“You consider yourself a lion among the nations,    but you are like a dragon in the seas;you burst forth in your rivers,    trouble the waters with your feet,    and foul their rivers.
Thus says the Lord God:    I will throw my net over you    with a host of many peoples;    and I will haul you up in my dragnet.
And I will cast you on the ground,    on the open field I will fling you,and will cause all the birds of the air to settle on you,    and I will gorge the beasts of the whole earth with you.
I will strew your flesh upon the mountains,    and fill the valleys with your carcass.
I will drench the land even to the mountains    with your flowing blood;    and the watercourses will be full of you.
When I blot you out, I will cover the heavens,    and make their stars dark;I will cover the sun with a cloud,    and the moon shall not give its light.
All the bright lights of heaven    will I make dark over you,    and put darkness upon your land,                says the Lord God.
“I will trouble the hearts of many peoples, when I carry you captive among the nations, into the countries which you have not known.
I will make many peoples appalled at you, and their kings shall shudder because of you, when I brandish my sword before them; they shall tremble every moment, every one for his own life, on the day of your downfall.
For thus says the Lord God: The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you.
I will cause your multitude to fall by the swords of mighty ones, all of them most terrible among the nations.“They shall bring to nought the pride of Egypt,    and all its multitude shall perish.
I will destroy all its beasts    from beside many waters;and no foot of man shall trouble them any more,    nor shall the hoofs of beasts trouble them.
Then I will make their waters clear,    and cause their rivers to run like oil,                says the Lord God.
When I make the land of Egypt desolate    and when the land is stripped of all that fills it,when I smite all who dwell in it,    then they will know that I am the Lord.
This is a lamentation which shall be chanted; the daughters of the nations shall chant it; over Egypt, and over all her multitude, shall they chant it, says the Lord God.”
In the twelfth year, in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me:
“Son of man, wail over the multitude of Egypt, and send them down, her and the daughters of majestic nations, to the nether world, to those who have gone down to the Pit:
‘Whom do you surpass in beauty?    Go down, and be laid with the uncircumcised.’
They shall fall amid those who are slain by the sword, and with her shall lie all her multitudes.
The mighty chiefs shall speak of them, with their helpers, out of the midst of Sheol: ‘They have come down, they lie still, the uncircumcised, slain by the sword.’
“Assyria is there, and all her company, their graves round about her, all of them slain, fallen by the sword;
whose graves are set in the uttermost parts of the Pit, and her company is round about her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who spread terror in the land of the living.
“Elam is there, and all her multitude about her grave; all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who went down uncircumcised into the nether world, who spread terror in the land of the living, and they bear their shame with those who go down to the Pit.
They have made her a bed among the slain with all her multitude, their graves round about her, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for terror of them was spread in the land of the living, and they bear their shame with those who go down to the Pit; they are placed among the slain.
“Meshech and Tubal are there, and all their multitude, their graves round about them, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for they spread terror in the land of the living.
And they do not lie with the fallen mighty men of old who went down to Sheol with their weapons of war, whose swords were laid under their heads, and whose shields are upon their bones; for the terror of the mighty men was in the land of the living.
So you shall be broken and lie among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword.
“Edom is there, her kings and all her princes, who for all their might are laid with those who are slain by the sword; they lie with the uncircumcised, with those who go down to the Pit.
“The princes of the north are there, all of them, and all the Sido′nians, who have gone down in shame with the slain, for all the terror which they caused by their might; they lie uncircumcised with those who are slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those who go down to the Pit.
“When Pharaoh sees them, he will comfort himself for all his multitude, Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, says the Lord God.
For he spread terror in the land of the living; therefore he shall be laid among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the Lord God.”