A false balance is an abomination to the Lord,    but a just weight is his delight.
When pride comes, then comes disgrace;    but with the humble is wisdom.
The integrity of the upright guides them,    but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them.
Riches do not profit in the day of wrath,    but righteousness delivers from death.
The righteousness of the blameless keeps his way straight,    but the wicked falls by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright delivers them,    but the treacherous are taken captive by their lust.
When the wicked dies, his hope perishes,    and the expectation of the godless comes to nought.
The righteous is delivered from trouble,    and the wicked gets into it instead.
With his mouth the godless man would destroy his neighbor,    but by knowledge the righteous are delivered.
When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices;    and when the wicked perish there are shouts of gladness.
By the blessing of the upright a city is exalted,    but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He who belittles his neighbor lacks sense,    but a man of understanding remains silent.
He who goes about as a talebearer reveals secrets,    but he who is trustworthy in spirit keeps a thing hidden.
Where there is no guidance, a people falls;    but in an abundance of counselors there is safety.
He who gives surety for a stranger will smart for it,    but he who hates suretyship is secure.
A gracious woman gets honor,    and violent men get riches.
A man who is kind benefits himself,    but a cruel man hurts himself.
A wicked man earns deceptive wages,    but one who sows righteousness gets a sure reward.
He who is steadfast in righteousness will live,    but he who pursues evil will die.
Men of perverse mind are an abomination to the Lord,    but those of blameless ways are his delight.
Be assured, an evil man will not go unpunished,    but those who are righteous will be delivered.
Like a gold ring in a swine’s snout    is a beautiful woman without discretion.
The desire of the righteous ends only in good;    the expectation of the wicked in wrath.
One man gives freely, yet grows all the richer;    another withholds what he should give, and only suffers want.
A liberal man will be enriched,    and one who waters will himself be watered.
The people curse him who holds back grain,    but a blessing is on the head of him who sells it.
He who diligently seeks good seeks favor,    but evil comes to him who searches for it.
He who trusts in his riches will wither,    but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf.
He who troubles his household will inherit wind,    and the fool will be servant to the wise.
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life,    but lawlessness takes away lives.
If the righteous is requited on earth,    how much more the wicked and the sinner!