Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge,    but he who hates reproof is stupid.
A good man obtains favor from the Lord,    but a man of evil devices he condemns.
A man is not established by wickedness,    but the root of the righteous will never be moved.
A good wife is the crown of her husband,    but she who brings shame is like rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous are just;    the counsels of the wicked are treacherous.
The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood,    but the mouth of the upright delivers men.
The wicked are overthrown and are no more,    but the house of the righteous will stand.
A man is commended according to his good sense,    but one of perverse mind is despised.
Better is a man of humble standing who works for himself    than one who plays the great man but lacks bread.
A righteous man has regard for the life of his beast,    but the mercy of the wicked is cruel.
He who tills his land will have plenty of bread,    but he who follows worthless pursuits has no sense.
The strong tower of the wicked comes to ruin,    but the root of the righteous stands firm.
An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips,    but the righteous escapes from trouble.
From the fruit of his words a man is satisfied with good,    and the work of a man’s hand comes back to him.
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes,    but a wise man listens to advice.
The vexation of a fool is known at once,    but the prudent man ignores an insult.
He who speaks the truth gives honest evidence,    but a false witness utters deceit.
There is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts,    but the tongue of the wise brings healing.
Truthful lips endure for ever,    but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil,    but those who plan good have joy.
No ill befalls the righteous,    but the wicked are filled with trouble.
Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord,    but those who act faithfully are his delight.
A prudent man conceals his knowledge,    but fools proclaim their folly.
The hand of the diligent will rule,    while the slothful will be put to forced labor.
Anxiety in a man’s heart weighs him down,    but a good word makes him glad.
A righteous man turns away from evil,    but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
A slothful man will not catch his prey,    but the diligent man will get precious wealth.
In the path of righteousness is life,    but the way of error leads to death.