Wisdom builds her house,but folly with her own hands tears it down.
He who walks in uprightness fears the Lord,    but he who is devious in his ways despises him.
The talk of a fool is a rod for his back,    but the lips of the wise will preserve them.
Where there are no oxen, there is no grain;    but abundant crops come by the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness does not lie,    but a false witness breathes out lies.
A scoffer seeks wisdom in vain,    but knowledge is easy for a man of understanding.
Leave the presence of a fool,    for there you do not meet words of knowledge.
The wisdom of a prudent man is to discern his way,    but the folly of fools is deceiving.
God scorns the wicked,    but the upright enjoy his favor.
The heart knows its own bitterness,    and no stranger shares its joy.
The house of the wicked will be destroyed,    but the tent of the upright will flourish.
There is a way which seems right to a man,    but its end is the way to death.
Even in laughter the heart is sad,    and the end of joy is grief.
A perverse man will be filled with the fruit of his ways,    and a good man with the fruit of his deeds.
The simple believes everything,    but the prudent looks where he is going.
A wise man is cautious and turns away from evil,    but a fool throws off restraint and is careless.
A man of quick temper acts foolishly,    but a man of discretion is patient.
The simple acquire folly,    but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
The evil bow down before the good,    the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poor is disliked even by his neighbor,    but the rich has many friends.
He who despises his neighbor is a sinner,    but happy is he who is kind to the poor.
Do they not err that devise evil?    Those who devise good meet loyalty and faithfulness.
In all toil there is profit,    but mere talk tends only to want.
The crown of the wise is their wisdom,    but folly is the garland of fools.
A truthful witness saves lives,    but one who utters lies is a betrayer.
In the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence,    and his children will have a refuge.
The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life,    that one may avoid the snares of death.
In a multitude of people is the glory of a king,    but without people a prince is ruined.
He who is slow to anger has great understanding,    but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
A tranquil mind gives life to the flesh,    but passion makes the bones rot.
He who oppresses a poor man insults his Maker,    but he who is kind to the needy honors him.
The wicked is overthrown through his evil-doing,    but the righteous finds refuge through his integrity.
Wisdom abides in the mind of a man of understanding,    but it is not known in the heart of fools.
Righteousness exalts a nation,    but sin is a reproach to any people.
A servant who deals wisely has the king’s favor,    but his wrath falls on one who acts shamefully.