A soft answer turns away wrath,but a harsh word stirs up anger.
The tongue of the wise dispenses knowledge,    but the mouths of fools pour out folly.
The eyes of the Lord are in every place,    keeping watch on the evil and the good.
A gentle tongue is a tree of life,    but perverseness in it breaks the spirit.
A fool despises his father’s instruction,    but he who heeds admonition is prudent.
In the house of the righteous there is much treasure,    but trouble befalls the income of the wicked.
The lips of the wise spread knowledge;    not so the minds of fools.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord,    but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
The way of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord,    but he loves him who pursues righteousness.
There is severe discipline for him who forsakes the way;    he who hates reproof will die.
Sheol and Abaddon lie open before the Lord    how much more the hearts of men!
A scoffer does not like to be reproved;    he will not go to the wise.
A glad heart makes a cheerful countenance,    but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken.
The mind of him who has understanding seeks knowledge,    but the mouths of fools feed on folly.
All the days of the afflicted are evil,    but a cheerful heart has a continual feast.
Better is a little with the fear of the Lord    than great treasure and trouble with it.
Better is a dinner of herbs where love is    than a fatted ox and hatred with it.
A hot-tempered man stirs up strife,    but he who is slow to anger quiets contention.
The way of a sluggard is overgrown with thorns,    but the path of the upright is a level highway.
A wise son makes a glad father,    but a foolish man despises his mother.
Folly is a joy to him who has no sense,    but a man of understanding walks aright.
Without counsel plans go wrong,    but with many advisers they succeed.
To make an apt answer is a joy to a man,    and a word in season, how good it is!
The wise man’s path leads upward to life,    that he may avoid Sheol beneath.
The Lord tears down the house of the proud,    but maintains the widow’s boundaries.
The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the Lord,    the words of the pure are pleasing to him.
He who is greedy for unjust gain makes trouble for his household,    but he who hates bribes will live.
The mind of the righteous ponders how to answer,    but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
The Lord is far from the wicked,    but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes rejoices the heart,    and good news refreshes the bones.
He whose ear heeds wholesome admonition    will abide among the wise.
He who ignores instruction despises himself,    but he who heeds admonition gains understanding.
The fear of the Lord is instruction in wisdom,    and humility goes before honor.