The plans of the mind belong to man,    but the answer of the tongue is from the Lord.
All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes,    but the Lord weighs the spirit.
Commit your work to the Lord,    and your plans will be established.
The Lord has made everything for its purpose,    even the wicked for the day of trouble.
Every one who is arrogant is an abomination to the Lord;    be assured, he will not go unpunished.
By loyalty and faithfulness iniquity is atoned for,    and by the fear of the Lord a man avoids evil.
When a man’s ways please the Lord,    he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Better is a little with righteousness    than great revenues with injustice.
A man’s mind plans his way,    but the Lord directs his steps.
Inspired decisions are on the lips of a king;    his mouth does not sin in judgment.
A just balance and scales are the Lord’s;    all the weights in the bag are his work.
It is an abomination to kings to do evil,    for the throne is established by righteousness.
Righteous lips are the delight of a king,    and he loves him who speaks what is right.
A king’s wrath is a messenger of death,    and a wise man will appease it.
In the light of a king’s face there is life,    and his favor is like the clouds that bring the spring rain.
To get wisdom is better than gold;    to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver.
The highway of the upright turns aside from evil;    he who guards his way preserves his life.
Pride goes before destruction,    and a haughty spirit before a fall.
It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor    than to divide the spoil with the proud.
He who gives heed to the word will prosper,    and happy is he who trusts in the Lord.
The wise of heart is called a man of discernment,    and pleasant speech increases persuasiveness.
Wisdom is a fountain of life to him who has it,    but folly is the chastisement of fools.
The mind of the wise makes his speech judicious,    and adds persuasiveness to his lips.
Pleasant words are like a honeycomb,    sweetness to the soul and health to the body.
There is a way which seems right to a man,    but its end is the way to death.
A worker’s appetite works for him;    his mouth urges him on.
A worthless man plots evil,    and his speech is like a scorching fire.
A perverse man spreads strife,    and a whisperer separates close friends.
A man of violence entices his neighbor    and leads him in a way that is not good.
He who winks his eyes plans perverse things,    he who compresses his lips brings evil to pass.
A hoary head is a crown of glory;    it is gained in a righteous life.
He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty,    and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city.
The lot is cast into the lap,    but the decision is wholly from the Lord.