Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity    than a man who is perverse in speech, and is a fool.
It is not good for a man to be without knowledge,    and he who makes haste with his feet misses his way.
When a man’s folly brings his way to ruin,    his heart rages against the Lord.
Wealth brings many new friends,    but a poor man is deserted by his friend.
A false witness will not go unpunished,    and he who utters lies will not escape.
Many seek the favor of a generous man,    and every one is a friend to a man who gives gifts.
All a poor man’s brothers hate him;    how much more do his friends go far from him!He pursues them with words, but does not have them.
He who gets wisdom loves himself;    he who keeps understanding will prosper.
A false witness will not go unpunished,    and he who utters lies will perish.
It is not fitting for a fool to live in luxury,    much less for a slave to rule over princes.
Good sense makes a man slow to anger,    and it is his glory to overlook an offense.
A king’s wrath is like the growling of a lion,    but his favor is like dew upon the grass.
A foolish son is ruin to his father,    and a wife’s quarreling is a continual dripping of rain.
House and wealth are inherited from fathers,    but a prudent wife is from the Lord.
Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep,    and an idle person will suffer hunger.
He who keeps the commandment keeps his life;    he who despises the word will die.
He who is kind to the poor lends to the Lord,    and he will repay him for his deed.
Discipline your son while there is hope;    do not set your heart on his destruction.
A man of great wrath will pay the penalty;    for if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again.
Listen to advice and accept instruction,    that you may gain wisdom for the future.
Many are the plans in the mind of a man,    but it is the purpose of the Lord that will be established.
What is desired in a man is loyalty,    and a poor man is better than a liar.
The fear of the Lord leads to life;    and he who has it rests satisfied;    he will not be visited by harm.
The sluggard buries his hand in the dish,    and will not even bring it back to his mouth.
Strike a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence;    reprove a man of understanding, and he will gain knowledge.
He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother    is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.
Cease, my son, to hear instruction    only to stray from the words of knowledge.
A worthless witness mocks at justice,    and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.
Condemnation is ready for scoffers,    and flogging for the backs of fools.