Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler;    and whoever is led astray by it is not wise.
The dread wrath of a king is like the growling of a lion;    he who provokes him to anger forfeits his life.
It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife;    but every fool will be quarreling.
The sluggard does not plow in the autumn;    he will seek at harvest and have nothing.
The purpose in a man’s mind is like deep water,    but a man of understanding will draw it out.
Many a man proclaims his own loyalty,    but a faithful man who can find?
A righteous man who walks in his integrity—    blessed are his sons after him!
A king who sits on the throne of judgment    winnows all evil with his eyes.
Who can say, “I have made my heart clean;    I am pure from my sin”?
Diverse weights and diverse measures    are both alike an abomination to the Lord.
Even a child makes himself known by his acts,    whether what he does is pure and right.
The hearing ear and the seeing eye,    the Lord has made them both.
Love not sleep, lest you come to poverty;    open your eyes, and you will have plenty of bread.
“It is bad, it is bad,” says the buyer;    but when he goes away, then he boasts.
There is gold, and abundance of costly stones;    but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.
Take a man’s garment when he has given surety for a stranger,    and hold him in pledge when he gives surety for foreigners.
Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man,    but afterward his mouth will be full of gravel.
Plans are established by counsel;    by wise guidance wage war.
He who goes about gossiping reveals secrets;    therefore do not associate with one who speaks foolishly.
If one curses his father or his mother,    his lamp will be put out in utter darkness.
An inheritance gotten hastily in the beginning    will in the end not be blessed.
Do not say, “I will repay evil”;    wait for the Lord, and he will help you.
Diverse weights are an abomination to the Lord,    and false scales are not good.
A man’s steps are ordered by the Lord;    how then can man understand his way?
It is a snare for a man to say rashly, “It is holy,”    and to reflect only after making his vows.
A wise king winnows the wicked,    and drives the wheel over them.
The spirit of man is the lamp of the Lord,    searching all his innermost parts.
Loyalty and faithfulness preserve the king,    and his throne is upheld by righteousness.
The glory of young men is their strength,    but the beauty of old men is their gray hair.
Blows that wound cleanse away evil;    strokes make clean the innermost parts.