The king’s heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord;    he turns it wherever he will.
Every way of a man is right in his own eyes,    but the Lord weighs the heart.
To do righteousness and justice    is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice.
Haughty eyes and a proud heart,    the lamp of the wicked, are sin.
The plans of the diligent lead surely to abundance,    but every one who is hasty comes only to want.
The getting of treasures by a lying tongue    is a fleeting vapor and a snare of death.
The violence of the wicked will sweep them away,    because they refuse to do what is just.
The way of the guilty is crooked,    but the conduct of the pure is right.
It is better to live in a corner of the housetop    than in a house shared with a contentious woman.
The soul of the wicked desires evil;    his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.
When a scoffer is punished, the simple becomes wise;    when a wise man is instructed, he gains knowledge.
The righteous observes the house of the wicked;    the wicked are cast down to ruin.
He who closes his ear to the cry of the poor    will himself cry out and not be heard.
A gift in secret averts anger;    and a bribe in the bosom, strong wrath.
When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous,    but dismay to evildoers.
A man who wanders from the way of understanding    will rest in the assembly of the dead.
He who loves pleasure will be a poor man;    he who loves wine and oil will not be rich.
The wicked is a ransom for the righteous,    and the faithless for the upright.
It is better to live in a desert land    than with a contentious and fretful woman.
Precious treasure remains in a wise man’s dwelling,    but a foolish man devours it.
He who pursues righteousness and kindness    will find life and honor.
A wise man scales the city of the mighty    and brings down the stronghold in which they trust.
He who keeps his mouth and his tongue    keeps himself out of trouble.
“Scoffer” is the name of the proud, haughty man    who acts with arrogant pride.
The desire of the sluggard kills him    for his hands refuse to labor.
All day long the wicked covets,    but the righteous gives and does not hold back.
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination;    how much more when he brings it with evil intent.
A false witness will perish,    but the word of a man who hears will endure.
A wicked man puts on a bold face,    but an upright man considers his ways.
No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel,    can avail against the Lord.
The horse is made ready for the day of battle,    but the victory belongs to the Lord.