When you sit down to eat with a ruler,    observe carefully what is before you;
and put a knife to your throat    if you are a man given to appetite.
Do not desire his delicacies,    for they are deceptive food.
Do not toil to acquire wealth;    be wise enough to desist.
When your eyes light upon it, it is gone;    for suddenly it takes to itself wings,    flying like an eagle toward heaven.
Do not eat the bread of a man who is stingy;    do not desire his delicacies;
for he is like one who is inwardly reckoning.    “Eat and drink!” he says to you;    but his heart is not with you.
You will vomit up the morsels which you have eaten,    and waste your pleasant words.
Do not speak in the hearing of a fool,    for he will despise the wisdom of your words.
Do not remove an ancient landmark    or enter the fields of the fatherless;
for their Redeemer is strong;    he will plead their cause against you.
Apply your mind to instruction    and your ear to words of knowledge.
Do not withhold discipline from a child;    if you beat him with a rod, he will not die.
If you beat him with the rod    you will save his life from Sheol.
My son, if your heart is wise,    my heart too will be glad.
My soul will rejoice    when your lips speak what is right.
Let not your heart envy sinners,    but continue in the fear of the Lord all the day.
Surely there is a future,    and your hope will not be cut off.
Hear, my son, and be wise,    and direct your mind in the way.
Be not among winebibbers,    or among gluttonous eaters of meat;
for the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty,    and drowsiness will clothe a man with rags.
Hearken to your father who begot you,    and do not despise your mother when she is old.
Buy truth, and do not sell it;    buy wisdom, instruction, and understanding.
The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice;    he who begets a wise son will be glad in him.
Let your father and mother be glad,    let her who bore you rejoice.
My son, give me your heart,    and let your eyes observe my ways.
For a harlot is a deep pit;    an adventuress is a narrow well.
She lies in wait like a robber    and increases the faithless among men.
Who has woe? Who has sorrow?    Who has strife? Who has complaining?Who has wounds without cause?    Who has redness of eyes?
Those who tarry long over wine,    those who go to try mixed wine.
Do not look at wine when it is red,    when it sparkles in the cup    and goes down smoothly.
At the last it bites like a serpent,    and stings like an adder.
Your eyes will see strange things,    and your mind utter perverse things.
You will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea,    like one who lies on the top of a mast.
“They struck me,” you will say, “but I was not hurt;    they beat me, but I did not feel it.When shall I awake?    I will seek another drink.”