Do not boast about tomorrow,for you do not know what a day may bring forth.
Let another praise you, and not your own mouth;    a stranger, and not your own lips.
A stone is heavy, and sand is weighty,    but a fool’s provocation is heavier than both.
Wrath is cruel, anger is overwhelming;    but who can stand before jealousy?
Better is open rebuke    than hidden love.
Faithful are the wounds of a friend;    profuse are the kisses of an enemy.
He who is sated loathes honey,    but to one who is hungry everything bitter is sweet.
Like a bird that strays from its nest,    is a man who strays from his home.
Oil and perfume make the heart glad,    but the soul is torn by trouble.
Your friend, and your father’s friend, do not forsake;    and do not go to your brother’s house in the day of your calamity.Better is a neighbor who is near    than a brother who is far away.
Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad,    that I may answer him who reproaches me.
A prudent man sees danger and hides himself;    but the simple go on, and suffer for it.
Take a man’s garment when he has given surety for a stranger,    and hold him in pledge when he gives surety for foreigners.
He who blesses his neighbor with a loud voice,    rising early in the morning,    will be counted as cursing.
A continual dripping on a rainy day    and a contentious woman are alike;
to restrain her is to restrain the wind    or to grasp oil in one’s right hand.
Iron sharpens iron,    and one man sharpens another.
He who tends a fig tree will eat its fruit,    and he who guards his master will be honored.
As in water face answers to face,    so the mind of man reflects the man.
Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied,    and never satisfied are the eyes of man.
The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold,    and a man is judged by his praise.
Crush a fool in a mortar with a pestle    along with crushed grain,    yet his folly will not depart from him.
Know well the condition of your flocks,    and give attention to your herds;
for riches do not last for ever;    and does a crown endure to all generations?
When the grass is gone, and the new growth appears,    and the herbage of the mountains is gathered,
the lambs will provide your clothing,    and the goats the price of a field;
there will be enough goats’ milk for your food,    for the food of your household    and maintenance for your maidens.