The wicked flee when no one pursues,    but the righteous are bold as a lion.
When a land transgresses    it has many rulers;but with men of understanding and knowledge    its stability will long continue.
A poor man who oppresses the poor    is a beating rain that leaves no food.
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked,    but those who keep the law strive against them.
Evil men do not understand justice,    but those who seek the Lord understand it completely.
Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity    than a rich man who is perverse in his ways.
He who keeps the law is a wise son,    but a companion of gluttons shames his father.
He who augments his wealth by interest and increase    gathers it for him who is kind to the poor.
If one turns away his ear from hearing the law,    even his prayer is an abomination.
He who misleads the upright into an evil way    will fall into his own pit;    but the blameless will have a goodly inheritance.
A rich man is wise in his own eyes,    but a poor man who has understanding will find him out.
When the righteous triumph, there is great glory;    but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.
He who conceals his transgressions will not prosper,    but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy.
Blessed is the man who fears the Lord always;    but he who hardens his heart will fall into calamity.
Like a roaring lion or a charging bear    is a wicked ruler over a poor people.
A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor;    but he who hates unjust gain will prolong his days.
If a man is burdened with the blood of another,    let him be a fugitive until death;    let no one help him.
He who walks in integrity will be delivered,    but he who is perverse in his ways will fall into a pit.
He who tills his land will have plenty of bread,    but he who follows worthless pursuits will have plenty of poverty.
A faithful man will abound with blessings,    but he who hastens to be rich will not go unpunished.
To show partiality is not good;    but for a piece of bread a man will do wrong.
A miserly man hastens after wealth,    and does not know that want will come upon him.
He who rebukes a man will afterward find more favor    than he who flatters with his tongue.
He who robs his father or his mother    and says, “That is no transgression,”    is the companion of a man who destroys.
A greedy man stirs up strife,    but he who trusts in the Lord will be enriched.
He who trusts in his own mind is a fool;    but he who walks in wisdom will be delivered.
He who gives to the poor will not want,    but he who hides his eyes will get many a curse.
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves,    but when they perish, the righteous increase.