He who is often reproved, yet stiffens his neck,    will suddenly be broken beyond healing.
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice;    but when the wicked rule, the people groan.
He who loves wisdom makes his father glad,    but one who keeps company with harlots squanders his substance.
By justice a king gives stability to the land,    but one who exacts gifts ruins it.
A man who flatters his neighbor    spreads a net for his feet.
An evil man is ensnared in his transgression,    but a righteous man sings and rejoices.
A righteous man knows the rights of the poor;    a wicked man does not understand such knowledge.
Scoffers set a city aflame,    but wise men turn away wrath.
If a wise man has an argument with a fool,    the fool only rages and laughs, and there is no quiet.
Bloodthirsty men hate one who is blameless,    and the wicked seek his life.
A fool gives full vent to his anger,    but a wise man quietly holds it back.
If a ruler listens to falsehood,    all his officials will be wicked.
The poor man and the oppressor meet together;    the Lord gives light to the eyes of both.
If a king judges the poor with equity    his throne will be established for ever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom,    but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother.
When the wicked are in authority, transgression increases;    but the righteous will look upon their downfall.
Discipline your son, and he will give you rest;    he will give delight to your heart.
Where there is no prophecy the people cast off restraint,    but blessed is he who keeps the law.
By mere words a servant is not disciplined,    for though he understands, he will not give heed.
Do you see a man who is hasty in his words?    There is more hope for a fool than for him.
He who pampers his servant from childhood,    will in the end find him his heir.
A man of wrath stirs up strife,    and a man given to anger causes much transgression.
A man’s pride will bring him low,    but he who is lowly in spirit will obtain honor.
The partner of a thief hates his own life;    he hears the curse, but discloses nothing.
The fear of man lays a snare,    but he who trusts in the Lord is safe.
Many seek the favor of a ruler,    but from the Lord a man gets justice.
An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous,    but he whose way is straight is an abomination to the wicked.