My son, do not forget my teaching,but let your heart keep my commandments;
for length of days and years of life    and abundant welfare will they give you.
Let not loyalty and faithfulness forsake you;    bind them about your neck,    write them on the tablet of your heart.
So you will find favor and good repute    in the sight of God and man.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart,    and do not rely on your own insight.
In all your ways acknowledge him,    and he will make straight your paths.
Be not wise in your own eyes;    fear the Lord, and turn away from evil.
It will be healing to your flesh    and refreshment to your bones.
Honor the Lord with your substance    and with the first fruits of all your produce;
then your barns will be filled with plenty,    and your vats will be bursting with wine.
My son, do not despise the Lord’s discipline    or be weary of his reproof,
for the Lord reproves him whom he loves,    as a father the son in whom he delights.
Happy is the man who finds wisdom,    and the man who gets understanding,
for the gain from it is better than gain from silver    and its profit better than gold.
She is more precious than jewels,    and nothing you desire can compare with her.
Long life is in her right hand;    in her left hand are riches and honor.
Her ways are ways of pleasantness,    and all her paths are peace.
She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her;    those who hold her fast are called happy.
The Lord by wisdom founded the earth;    by understanding he established the heavens;
by his knowledge the deeps broke forth,    and the clouds drop down the dew.
My son, keep sound wisdom and discretion;    let them not escape from your sight,
and they will be life for your soul    and adornment for your neck.
Then you will walk on your way securely    and your foot will not stumble.
If you sit down, you will not be afraid;    when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet.
Do not be afraid of sudden panic,    or of the ruin of the wicked, when it comes;
for the Lord will be your confidence    and will keep your foot from being caught.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due,    when it is in your power to do it.
Do not say to your neighbor, “Go, and come again,    tomorrow I will give it”—when you have it with you.
Do not plan evil against your neighbor    who dwells trustingly beside you.
Do not contend with a man for no reason,    when he has done you no harm.
Do not envy a man of violence    and do not choose any of his ways;
for the perverse man is an abomination to the Lord,    but the upright are in his confidence.
The Lord’s curse is on the house of the wicked,    but he blesses the abode of the righteous.
Toward the scorners he is scornful,    but to the humble he shows favor.
The wise will inherit honor,    but fools get disgrace.