Woe to her that is rebellious and defiled,    the oppressing city!
She listens to no voice,    she accepts no correction.She does not trust in the Lord,    she does not draw near to her God.
Her officials within her    are roaring lions;her judges are evening wolves    that leave nothing till the morning.
Her prophets are wanton,    faithless men;her priests profane what is sacred,    they do violence to the law.
The Lord within her is righteous,    he does no wrong;every morning he shows forth his justice,    each dawn he does not fail;    but the unjust knows no shame.
“I have cut off nations;    their battlements are in ruins;I have laid waste their streets    so that none walks in them;their cities have been made desolate,    without a man, without an inhabitant.
I said, ‘Surely she will fear me,    she will accept correction;she will not lose sight    of all that I have enjoined upon her.’But all the more they were eager    to make all their deeds corrupt.”
“Therefore wait for me,” says the Lord,    “for the day when I arise as a witness.For my decision is to gather nations,    to assemble kingdoms,to pour out upon them my indignation,    all the heat of my anger;for in the fire of my jealous wrath    all the earth shall be consumed.
“Yea, at that time I will change the speech of the peoples    to a pure speech,that all of them may call on the name of the Lord    and serve him with one accord.
From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia    my suppliants, the daughter of my dispersed ones,    shall bring my offering.
“On that day you shall not be put to shame    because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me;for then I will remove from your midst    your proudly exultant ones,and you shall no longer be haughty    in my holy mountain.
For I will leave in the midst of you    a people humble and lowly.They shall seek refuge in the name of the Lord,
those who are left in Israel;they shall do no wrong    and utter no lies,nor shall there be found in their mouth    a deceitful tongue.For they shall pasture and lie down,    and none shall make them afraid.”
Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion;    shout, O Israel!Rejoice and exult with all your heart,    O daughter of Jerusalem!
The Lord has taken away the judgments against you,    he has cast out your enemies.The King of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst;    you shall fear evil no more.
On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem:“Do not fear, O Zion;    let not your hands grow weak.
The Lord your God is in your midst,    a warrior who gives victory;he will rejoice over you with gladness,    he will renew you in his love;he will exult over you with loud singing
as on a day of festival.“I will remove disaster from you,    so that you will not bear reproach for it.
Behold, at that time I will deal    with all your oppressors.And I will save the lame    and gather the outcast,and I will change their shame into praise    and renown in all the earth.
At that time I will bring you home,    at the time when I gather you together;yea, I will make you renowned and praised    among all the peoples of the earth,when I restore your fortunes    before your eyes,” says the Lord.