Now Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, “Keep all the commandment which I command you this day.
And on the day you pass over the Jordan to the land which the Lord your God gives you, you shall set up large stones, and plaster them with plaster;
and you shall write upon them all the words of this law, when you pass over to enter the land which the Lord your God gives you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you.
And when you have passed over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones, concerning which I command you this day, on Mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster.
And there you shall build an altar to the Lord your God, an altar of stones; you shall lift up no iron tool upon them.
You shall build an altar to the Lord your God of unhewn stones; and you shall offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God;
and you shall sacrifice peace offerings, and shall eat there; and you shall rejoice before the Lord your God.
And you shall write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly.”
And Moses and the Levitical priests said to all Israel, “Keep silence and hear, O Israel: this day you have become the people of the Lord your God.
You shall therefore obey the voice of the Lord your God, keeping his commandments and his statutes, which I command you this day.”
And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,
“When you have passed over the Jordan, these shall stand upon Mount Ger′izim to bless the people: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Is′sachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.
And these shall stand upon Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zeb′ulun, Dan, and Naph′tali.
And the Levites shall declare to all the men of Israel with a loud voice:
“‘Cursed be the man who makes a graven or molten image, an abomination to the Lord, a thing made by the hands of a craftsman, and sets it up in secret.’ And all the people shall answer and say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who dishonors his father or his mother.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who removes his neighbor’s landmark.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who misleads a blind man on the road.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who lies with his father’s wife, because he has uncovered her who is his father’s.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who lies with any kind of beast.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who lies with his sister, whether the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who lies with his mother-in-law.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who slays his neighbor in secret.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who takes a bribe to slay an innocent person.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
“‘Cursed be he who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’