These are their family heads, and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Babylonia, in the reign of King Artaxerxes:
Of the descendants of Phinehas, Gershom. Of Ithamar, Daniel. Of David, Hattush,
of the descendants of Shecaniah. Of Parosh, Zechariah, with whom were registered one hundred fifty males.
Of the descendants of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai son of Zerahiah, and with him two hundred males.
Of the descendants of Zattu, Shecaniah son of Jahaziel, and with him three hundred males.
Of the descendants of Adin, Ebed son of Jonathan, and with him fifty males.
Of the descendants of Elam, Jeshaiah son of Athaliah, and with him seventy males.
Of the descendants of Shephatiah, Zebadiah son of Michael, and with him eighty males.
Of the descendants of Joab, Obadiah son of Jehiel, and with him two hundred eighteen males.
Of the descendants of Bani, Shelomith son of Josiphiah, and with him one hundred sixty males.
Of the descendants of Bebai, Zechariah son of Bebai, and with him twenty-eight males.
Of the descendants of Azgad, Johanan son of Hakkatan, and with him one hundred ten males.
Of the descendants of Adonikam, those who came later, their names being Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah, and with them sixty males.
Of the descendants of Bigvai, Uthai and Zaccur, and with them seventy males.
I gathered them by the river that runs to Ahava, and there we camped three days. As I reviewed the people and the priests, I found there none of the descendants of Levi.
Then I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, and Meshullam, who were leaders, and for Joiarib and Elnathan, who were wise,
and sent them to Iddo, the leader at the place called Casiphia, telling them what to say to Iddo and his colleagues the temple servants at Casiphia, namely, to send us ministers for the house of our God.
Since the gracious hand of our God was upon us, they brought us a man of discretion, of the descendants of Mahli son of Levi son of Israel, namely, Sherebiah, with his sons and kin, eighteen;
also Hashabiah and with him Jeshaiah of the descendants of Merari, with his kin and their sons, twenty;
besides two hundred twenty of the temple servants, whom David and his officials had set apart to attend the Levites. These were all mentioned by name.
Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the River Ahava, that we might humble ourselves before our God, to seek from him a safe journey for ourselves, our children, and all our possessions.
For I was ashamed to ask the king for a band of soldiers and cavalry to protect us against the enemy on our way, since we had told the king that the hand of our God is gracious to all who seek him, but his power and his wrath are against all who forsake him.
So we fasted and petitioned our God for this, and he listened to our entreaty.
Then I set apart twelve of the leading priests: Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their kin with them.
And I weighed out to them the silver and the gold and the vessels, the offering for the house of our God that the king, his counselors, his lords, and all Israel there present had offered;
I weighed out into their hand six hundred fifty talents of silver, and one hundred silver vessels worth . . . talents, and one hundred talents of gold,
twenty gold bowls worth a thousand darics, and two vessels of fine polished bronze as precious as gold.
And I said to them, “You are holy to the Lord, and the vessels are holy, and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering to the Lord, the God of your ancestors.
Guard them and keep them until you weigh them before the chief priests and the Levites and the heads of families in Israel at Jerusalem, within the chambers of the house of the Lord.”
So the priests and the Levites took over the silver, the gold, and the vessels as they were weighed out, to bring them to Jerusalem, to the house of our God.
Then we left the River Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month to go to Jerusalem; the hand of our God was upon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and from ambushes along the way.
We came to Jerusalem and remained there three days.
On the fourth day, within the house of our God, the silver, the gold, and the vessels were weighed into the hands of the priest Meremoth son of Uriah, and with him was Eleazar son of Phinehas, and with them were the Levites, Jozabad son of Jeshua and Noadiah son of Binnui.
The total was counted and weighed, and the weight of everything was recorded.
At that time those who had come from captivity, the returned exiles, offered burnt offerings to the God of Israel: twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and as a sin offering twelve male goats; all this was a burnt offering to the Lord.
They also delivered the king’s commissions to the king’s satraps and to the governors of the province Beyond the River, and they supported the people and the house of God.