A good name is better than precious ointment,    and the day of death, than the day of birth.
It is better to go to the house of mourning    than to go to the house of feasting,for this is the end of everyone,    and the living will lay it to heart.
Sorrow is better than laughter,    for by sadness of countenance the heart is made glad.
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning,    but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise    than to hear the song of fools.
For like the crackling of thorns under a pot,    so is the laughter of fools;    this also is vanity.
Surely oppression makes the wise foolish,    and a bribe corrupts the heart.
Better is the end of a thing than its beginning;    the patient in spirit are better than the proud in spirit.
Do not be quick to anger,    for anger lodges in the bosom of fools.
Do not say, “Why were the former days better than these?”    For it is not from wisdom that you ask this.
Wisdom is as good as an inheritance,    an advantage to those who see the sun.
For the protection of wisdom is like the protection of money,    and the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom gives life to the one who possesses it.
Consider the work of God;    who can make straight what he has made crooked?
In the day of prosperity, be joyful, and in the day of adversity, consider: God has made the one as well as the other, so that mortals may not find out anything that comes after them.
In my vain life I have seen everything; there are righteous people who perish in their righteousness, and there are wicked people who prolong their life in their evildoing.
Do not be too righteous, and do not act too wise; why should you destroy yourself?
Do not be too wicked, and do not be a fool; why should you die before your time?
It is good that you should take hold of the one without letting go of the other, for the one who fears God shall succeed with both.
Wisdom gives strength to the wise more than ten rulers who are in a city.
Surely there is no one on earth so righteous as to do good without ever sinning.
Do not give heed to everything that people say, or you may hear your servant cursing you;
your heart knows that many times you have yourself cursed others.
All this I have tested by wisdom; I said, “I will be wise,” but it was far from me.
That which is, is far off, and deep, very deep; who can find it out?
I turned my mind to know and to search out and to seek wisdom and the sum of things and to know that wickedness is folly and that foolishness is madness.
I found more bitter than death the woman who is a trap, whose heart is nets, whose hands are fetters; one who pleases God escapes her, but the sinner is taken by her.
See, this is what I found, says the Teacher, adding one thing to another to find the sum,
which my mind has sought repeatedly, but I have not found. One man among a thousand I found, but a woman among all these I have not found.
See, this alone I found, that God made human beings straightforward, but they have devised many schemes.