After the plague the Lord said to Moses and to Eleazar the priest,
“Take a census of the whole congregation of the Israelites, from twenty years old and up, by their ancestral houses, everyone in Israel able to go to war.”
Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan opposite Jericho, saying,
“Take a census of the people, from twenty years old and up,” as the Lord commanded Moses.The Israelites who came out of the land of Egypt were:
Reuben, the firstborn of Israel. The descendants of Reuben: of Hanoch, the clan of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the clan of the Palluites;
of Hezron, the clan of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the clan of the Carmites.
These are the clans of the Reubenites; the number of those enrolled was forty-three thousand seven hundred thirty.
And the descendants of Pallu: Eliab.
The descendants of Eliab: Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. These are the same Dathan and Abiram, chosen from the congregation, who rebelled against Moses and Aaron in the congregation of Korah, when they rebelled against the Lord,
and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up along with Korah, when that congregation died, when the fire devoured two hundred fifty men, and they became a warning.
Notwithstanding, the sons of Korah did not die.
The descendants of Simeon by their clans: of Nemuel, the clan of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the clan of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the clan of the Jachinites;
of Zerah, the clan of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the clan of the Shaulites.
These are the clans of the Simeonites: twenty-two thousand two hundred.
The descendants of Gad by their clans: of Zephon, the clan of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the clan of the Haggites; of Shuni, the clan of the Shunites;
of Ozni, the clan of the Oznites; of Eri, the clan of the Erites;
of Arod, the clan of the Arodites; of Areli, the clan of the Arelites.
These are the clans of the descendants of Gad by the number of those enrolled: forty thousand five hundred.
The sons of Judah: Er and Onan; Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
The descendants of Judah by their clans were: of Shelah, the clan of the Shelanites; of Perez, the clan of the Perezites; of Zerah, the clan of the Zerahites.
The descendants of Perez were: of Hezron, the clan of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the clan of the Hamulites.
These are the clans of Judah by the number of those enrolled: seventy-six thousand five hundred.
The descendants of Issachar by their clans: of Tola, the clan of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the clan of the Punites;
of Jashub, the clan of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the clan of the Shimronites.
These are the clans of Issachar by the number of those enrolled: sixty-four thousand three hundred.
The descendants of Zebulun by their clans: of Sered, the clan of the Seredites; of Elon, the clan of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the clan of the Jahleelites.
These are the clans of the Zebulunites by the number of those enrolled: sixty thousand five hundred.
The sons of Joseph by their clans: Manasseh and Ephraim.
The descendants of Manasseh: of Machir, the clan of the Machirites; and Machir was the father of Gilead; of Gilead, the clan of the Gileadites.
These are the descendants of Gilead: of Iezer, the clan of the Iezerites; of Helek, the clan of the Helekites;
and of Asriel, the clan of the Asrielites; and of Shechem, the clan of the Shechemites;
and of Shemida, the clan of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the clan of the Hepherites.
Now Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons, only daughters, and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
These are the clans of Manasseh; the number of those enrolled was fifty-two thousand seven hundred.
These are the descendants of Ephraim according to their clans: of Shuthelah, the clan of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the clan of the Becherites; of Tahan, the clan of the Tahanites.
And these are the descendants of Shuthelah: of Eran, the clan of the Eranites.
These are the clans of the Ephraimites by the number of those enrolled: thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the descendants of Joseph by their clans.
The descendants of Benjamin by their clans: of Bela, the clan of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the clan of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the clan of the Ahiramites;
of Shephupham, the clan of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the clan of the Huphamites.
And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the clan of the Ardites; of Naaman, the clan of the Naamites.
These are the descendants of Benjamin by their clans; the number of those enrolled was forty-five thousand six hundred.
These are the descendants of Dan by their clans: of Shuham, the clan of the Shuhamites. These are the clans of Dan by their clans.
All the clans of the Shuhamites by the number of those enrolled: sixty-four thousand four hundred.
The descendants of Asher by their clans: of Imnah, the clan of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the clan of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the clan of the Beriites.
Of the descendants of Beriah: of Heber, the clan of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the clan of the Malchielites.
And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
These are the clans of the descendants of Asher by the number of those enrolled: fifty-three thousand four hundred.
The descendants of Naphtali by their clans: of Jahzeel, the clan of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the clan of the Gunites;
of Jezer, the clan of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the clan of the Shillemites.
These are the clans of Naphtali by their clans; the number of those enrolled was forty-five thousand four hundred.
This was the number of the Israelites enrolled: six hundred and one thousand seven hundred thirty.
The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“To these the land shall be apportioned for inheritance according to the number of names.
To a large tribe you shall give a large inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a small inheritance; every tribe shall be given its inheritance according to its enrollment.
But the land shall be apportioned by lot; according to the names of their ancestral tribes they shall inherit.
Their inheritance shall be apportioned according to lot between the larger and the smaller.”
This is the enrollment of the Levites by their clans: of Gershon, the clan of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the clan of the Kohathites; of Merari, the clan of the Merarites.
These are the clans of Levi: the clan of the Libnites, the clan of the Hebronites, the clan of the Mahlites, the clan of the Mushites, the clan of the Korahites. Now Kohath was the father of Amram.
The name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt, and she bore to Amram: Aaron, Moses, and their sister Miriam.
To Aaron were born Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
But Nadab and Abihu died when they offered unholy fire before the Lord.
The number of those enrolled was twenty-three thousand, every male one month old and up, for they were not enrolled among the Israelites because there was no allotment given to them among the Israelites.
These were those enrolled by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who enrolled the Israelites in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
Among these there was not one of those enrolled by Moses and Aaron the priest, who had enrolled the Israelites in the wilderness of Sinai.
For the Lord had said of them, “They shall die in the wilderness.” Not one of them was left, except Caleb son of Jephunneh and Joshua son of Nun.