The Lord spoke to Moses, saying,
“Command the Israelites, and say to them: My offering, the food for my offerings by fire, my pleasing odor, you shall take care to offer to me at its appointed time.
And you shall say to them: This is the offering by fire that you shall offer to the Lord: two male lambs a year old without blemish, daily, as a regular offering.
One lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at twilight;
also one-tenth of an ephah of choice flour for a grain offering, mixed with one-fourth of a hin of beaten oil.
It is a regular burnt offering, ordained at Mount Sinai for a pleasing odor, an offering by fire to the Lord.
Its drink offering shall be one-fourth of a hin for each lamb; in the sanctuary you shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to the Lord.
The other lamb you shall offer at twilight with a grain offering and a drink offering like the one in the morning; you shall offer it as an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the Lord.
“On the Sabbath day: two male lambs a year old without blemish and two-tenths of an ephah of choice flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering—
this is the burnt offering for every Sabbath, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
“At the beginnings of your months you shall offer a burnt offering to the Lord: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
also three-tenths of an ephah of choice flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for each bull; and two-tenths of choice flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram;
and one-tenth of choice flour mixed with oil as a grain offering for each lamb—a burnt offering of pleasing odor, an offering by fire to the Lord.
Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, one-third of a hin for a ram, and one-fourth of a hin for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
And there shall be one male goat for a purification offering to the Lord; it shall be offered in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
“On the fourteenth day of the first month there shall be a Passover offering to the Lord.
And on the fifteenth day of this month is a festival; seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
On the first day there shall be a holy convocation. You shall not work at your occupations.
You shall offer an offering by fire, a burnt offering to the Lord: two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; see that they are without blemish.
Their grain offering shall be of choice flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah shall you offer for a bull and two-tenths for a ram;
one-tenth shall you offer for each of the seven lambs;
also one male goat for a purification offering, to make atonement for you.
You shall offer these in addition to the burnt offering of the morning, which belongs to the regular burnt offering.
In the same way you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of an offering by fire, a pleasing odor to the Lord; it shall be offered in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall not work at your occupations.
“On the day of the first fruits, when you offer a grain offering of new grain to the Lord at your Festival of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall not work at your occupations.
You shall offer a burnt offering, a pleasing odor to the Lord: two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs a year old.
Their grain offering shall be of choice flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah for each bull, two-tenths for the one ram,
one-tenth for each of the seven lambs,
with one male goat, to make atonement for you.
In addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, you shall offer them and their drink offering. They shall be without blemish.