Paul an apostle—not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead—
and all the brethren who are with me,To the churches of Galatia:
Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ,
who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father;
to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and turning to a different gospel—
not that there is another gospel, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ.
But even if we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you a gospel contrary to that which we preached to you, let him be accursed.
As we have said before, so now I say again, If any one is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you received, let him be accursed.
Am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I trying to please men? If I were still pleasing men, I should not be a servant of Christ.
For I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not man’s gospel.
For I did not receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it;
and I advanced in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, so extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers.
But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and had called me through his grace,
was pleased to reveal his Son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not confer with flesh and blood,
nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia; and again I returned to Damascus.
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas, and remained with him fifteen days.
But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord’s brother.
(In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie!)
Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cili′cia.
And I was still not known by sight to the churches of Christ in Judea;
they only heard it said, “He who once persecuted us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy.”
And they glorified God because of me.