“Lo, my eye has seen all this, my ear has heard and understood it.
What you know, I also know;    I am not inferior to you.
But I would speak to the Almighty,    and I desire to argue my case with God.
As for you, you whitewash with lies;    worthless physicians are you all.
Oh that you would keep silent,    and it would be your wisdom!
Hear now my reasoning,    and listen to the pleadings of my lips.
Will you speak falsely for God,    and speak deceitfully for him?
Will you show partiality toward him,    will you plead the case for God?
Will it be well with you when he searches you out?    Or can you deceive him, as one deceives a man?
He will surely rebuke you    if in secret you show partiality.
Will not his majesty terrify you,    and the dread of him fall upon you?
Your maxims are proverbs of ashes,    your defenses are defenses of clay.
“Let me have silence, and I will speak,    and let come on me what may.
I will take my flesh in my teeth,    and put my life in my hand.
Behold, he will slay me; I have no hope;    yet I will defend my ways to his face.
This will be my salvation,    that a godless man shall not come before him.
Listen carefully to my words,    and let my declaration be in your ears.
Behold, I have prepared my case;    I know that I shall be vindicated.
Who is there that will contend with me?    For then I would be silent and die.
Only grant two things to me,    then I will not hide myself from thy face:
withdraw thy hand far from me,    and let not dread of thee terrify me.
Then call, and I will answer;    or let me speak, and do thou reply to me.
How many are my iniquities and my sins?    Make me know my transgression and my sin.
Why dost thou hide thy face,    and count me as thy enemy?
Wilt thou frighten a driven leaf    and pursue dry chaff?
For thou writest bitter things against me,    and makest me inherit the iniquities of my youth.
Thou puttest my feet in the stocks,    and watchest all my paths;    thou settest a bound to the soles of my feet.
Man wastes away like a rotten thing,    like a garment that is moth-eaten.