Then Eli′phaz the Te′manite answered:
“Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge,    and fill himself with the east wind?
Should he argue in unprofitable talk,    or in words with which he can do no good?
But you are doing away with the fear of God,    and hindering meditation before God.
For your iniquity teaches your mouth,    and you choose the tongue of the crafty.
Your own mouth condemns you, and not I;    your own lips testify against you.
“Are you the first man that was born?    Or were you brought forth before the hills?
Have you listened in the council of God?    And do you limit wisdom to yourself?
What do you know that we do not know?    What do you understand that is not clear to us?
Both the gray-haired and the aged are among us,    older than your father.
Are the consolations of God too small for you,    or the word that deals gently with you?
Why does your heart carry you away,    and why do your eyes flash,
that you turn your spirit against God,    and let such words go out of your mouth?
What is man, that he can be clean?    Or he that is born of a woman, that he can be righteous?
Behold, God puts no trust in his holy ones,    and the heavens are not clean in his sight;
how much less one who is abominable and corrupt,    a man who drinks iniquity like water!
“I will show you, hear me;    and what I have seen I will declare
(what wise men have told,    and their fathers have not hidden,
to whom alone the land was given,    and no stranger passed among them).
The wicked man writhes in pain all his days,    through all the years that are laid up for the ruthless.
Terrifying sounds are in his ears;    in prosperity the destroyer will come upon him.
He does not believe that he will return out of darkness,    and he is destined for the sword.
He wanders abroad for bread, saying, ‘Where is it?’    He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his hand;
distress and anguish terrify him;    they prevail against him, like a king prepared for battle.
Because he has stretched forth his hand against God,    and bids defiance to the Almighty,
running stubbornly against him    with a thick-bossed shield;
because he has covered his face with his fat,    and gathered fat upon his loins,
and has lived in desolate cities,    in houses which no man should inhabit,    which were destined to become heaps of ruins;
he will not be rich, and his wealth will not endure,    nor will he strike root in the earth;
he will not escape from darkness;    the flame will dry up his shoots,    and his blossom will be swept away by the wind.
Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself;    for emptiness will be his recompense.
It will be paid in full before his time,    and his branch will not be green.
He will shake off his unripe grape, like the vine,    and cast off his blossom, like the olive tree.
For the company of the godless is barren,    and fire consumes the tents of bribery.
They conceive mischief and bring forth evil    and their heart prepares deceit.”