“But now, hear my speech, O Job,    and listen to all my words.
Behold, I open my mouth;    the tongue in my mouth speaks.
My words declare the uprightness of my heart,    and what my lips know they speak sincerely.
The spirit of God has made me,    and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
Answer me, if you can;    set your words in order before me; take your stand.
Behold, I am toward God as you are;    I too was formed from a piece of clay.
Behold, no fear of me need terrify you;    my pressure will not be heavy upon you.
“Surely, you have spoken in my hearing,    and I have heard the sound of your words.
You say, ‘I am clean, without transgression;    I am pure, and there is no iniquity in me.
Behold, he finds occasions against me,    he counts me as his enemy;
he puts my feet in the stocks,    and watches all my paths.’
“Behold, in this you are not right. I will answer you.    God is greater than man.
Why do you contend against him,    saying, ‘He will answer none of my words’?
For God speaks in one way,    and in two, though man does not perceive it.
In a dream, in a vision of the night,    when deep sleep falls upon men,    while they slumber on their beds,
then he opens the ears of men,    and terrifies them with warnings,
that he may turn man aside from his deed,    and cut off pride from man;
he keeps back his soul from the Pit,    his life from perishing by the sword.
“Man is also chastened with pain upon his bed,    and with continual strife in his bones;
so that his life loathes bread,    and his appetite dainty food.
His flesh is so wasted away that it cannot be seen;    and his bones which were not seen stick out.
His soul draws near the Pit,    and his life to those who bring death.
If there be for him an angel,    a mediator, one of the thousand,    to declare to man what is right for him;
and he is gracious to him, and says,    ‘Deliver him from going down into the Pit,    I have found a ransom;
let his flesh become fresh with youth;    let him return to the days of his youthful vigor’;
then man prays to God, and he accepts him,    he comes into his presence with joy.He recounts to men his salvation,
and he sings before men, and says:‘I sinned, and perverted what was right,    and it was not requited to me.
He has redeemed my soul from going down into the Pit,    and my life shall see the light.’
“Behold, God does all these things,    twice, three times, with a man,
to bring back his soul from the Pit,    that he may see the light of life.
Give heed, O Job, listen to me;    be silent, and I will speak.
If you have anything to say, answer me;    speak, for I desire to justify you.
If not, listen to me;    be silent, and I will teach you wisdom.”