“At this also my heart trembles,    and leaps out of its place.
Hearken to the thunder of his voice    and the rumbling that comes from his mouth.
Under the whole heaven he lets it go,    and his lightning to the corners of the earth.
After it his voice roars;    he thunders with his majestic voice    and he does not restrain the lightnings when his voice is heard.
God thunders wondrously with his voice;    he does great things which we cannot comprehend.
For to the snow he says, ‘Fall on the earth’;    and to the shower and the rain, ‘Be strong.’
He seals up the hand of every man,    that all men may know his work.
Then the beasts go into their lairs,    and remain in their dens.
From its chamber comes the whirlwind,    and cold from the scattering winds.
By the breath of God ice is given,    and the broad waters are frozen fast.
He loads the thick cloud with moisture;    the clouds scatter his lightning.
They turn round and round by his guidance,    to accomplish all that he commands them    on the face of the habitable world.
Whether for correction, or for his land,    or for love, he causes it to happen.
“Hear this, O Job;    stop and consider the wondrous works of God.
Do you know how God lays his command upon them,    and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
Do you know the balancings of the clouds,    the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge,
you whose garments are hot    when the earth is still because of the south wind?
Can you, like him, spread out the skies,    hard as a molten mirror?
Teach us what we shall say to him;    we cannot draw up our case because of darkness.
Shall it be told him that I would speak?    Did a man ever wish that he would be swallowed up?
“And now men cannot look on the light    when it is bright in the skies,    when the wind has passed and cleared them.
Out of the north comes golden splendor;    God is clothed with terrible majesty.
The Almighty—we cannot find him;    he is great in power and justice,    and abundant righteousness he will not violate.
Therefore men fear him;    he does not regard any who are wise in their own conceit.”