The word of the Lord came to me:
Mortal, say to the prince of Tyre: Thus says the Lord God:Because your heart is proud    and you have said, “I am a god;I sit in the seat of the gods,    in the heart of the seas,”yet you are but a mortal and no god,    though you compare your mind    with the mind of a god.
You are indeed wiser than Daniel;    no secret is hidden from you;
by your wisdom and your understanding    you have amassed wealth for yourselfand have gathered gold and silver    into your treasuries.
By your great wisdom in trade    you have increased your wealth,    and your heart has become proud in your wealth.
Therefore thus says the Lord God:Because you compare your mind    with the mind of a god,
therefore, I will bring strangers against you,    the most terrible of the nations;they shall draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom    and defile your splendor.
They shall thrust you down to the Pit,    and you shall die a violent death    in the heart of the seas.
Will you still say, “I am a god,”    in the presence of those who kill you,though you are but a mortal and no god,    in the hands of those who pierce you?
You shall die the death of the uncircumcised    by the hand of foreigners,    for I have spoken, says the Lord God.
Moreover the word of the Lord came to me:
Mortal, raise a lamentation over the king of Tyre, and say to him: Thus says the Lord God:You were the signet of perfection,    full of wisdom and perfect in beauty.
You were in Eden, the garden of God;    every precious stone was your covering,carnelian, chrysolite, and moonstone,    beryl, onyx, and jasper,sapphire, turquoise, and emerald;    and worked in gold were your settings    and your engravings.On the day that you were created    they were prepared.
You were a cherub;    I placed you on the holy mountain of God;    you walked among the stones of fire.
You were blameless in your ways    from the day that you were created,    until iniquity was found in you.
In the abundance of your trade    you were filled with violence, and you sinned,so I cast you as a profane thing from the mountain of God,    and I drove you out, O guardian cherub,    from among the stones of fire.
Your heart was proud because of your beauty;    you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor.I cast you to the ground;    I exposed you before kings,    to feast their eyes on you.
By the multitude of your iniquities,    in the unrighteousness of your trade,    you profaned your sanctuaries.So I brought out fire from within you;    it consumed you,and I turned you to ashes on the earth    in the sight of all who saw you.
All who know you among the peoples    are appalled at you;you have come to a dreadful end    and shall be no more forever.
The word of the Lord came to me:
Mortal, set your face toward Sidon, and prophesy against it,
and say: Thus says the Lord God:I am against you, O Sidon,    and I will gain glory in your midst.They shall know that I am the Lord    when I execute judgments in it    and manifest my holiness in it;
for I will send pestilence into it,    and bloodshed into its streets;and the dead shall fall in its midst,    by the sword that is against it on every side.And they shall know that I am the Lord.
The house of Israel shall no longer find a pricking brier or a piercing thorn among all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. And they shall know that I am the Lord God.
Thus says the Lord God: When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered and manifest my holiness in them in the sight of the nations, then they shall settle on their own soil that I gave to my servant Jacob.
They shall live in safety in it and shall build houses and plant vineyards. They shall live in safety when I execute judgments upon all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. And they shall know that I am the Lord their God.