The word of the Lord came to me:
O mortal, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them
and say: You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God! Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys: I, I myself, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.
Your altars shall become desolate, and your incense stands shall be broken, and I will throw down your slain in front of your idols.
I will lay the corpses of the people of Israel in front of their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars.
Wherever you live, your towns shall be waste and your high places ruined, so that your altars will be waste and ruined, your idols broken and destroyed, your incense stands cut down, and your works wiped out.
The slain shall fall in your midst; then you shall know that I am the Lord.
But I will spare some. Some of you shall escape the sword among the nations and be scattered through the countries.
Your survivors shall remember me among the nations where they are carried captive, how I was crushed by their wanton heart that turned away from me and their wanton eyes that turned after their idols. Then they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils that they have committed, for all their abominations.
And they shall know that I am the Lord; I did not threaten in vain to bring this disaster upon them.
Thus says the Lord God: Strike your hands together and stamp your foot and say Alas! for all the vile abominations of the house of Israel. For they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.
Those far off shall die of pestilence, those nearby shall fall by the sword, and any who are left and are spared shall die of famine. Thus I will spend my fury upon them.
And you shall know that I am the Lord when their slain lie among their idols around their altars, on every high hill, on all the mountaintops, under every green tree, and under every leafy oak, wherever they offered pleasing odor to all their idols.
I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate and waste, throughout all their settlements, from the wilderness to Riblah. Then they shall know that I am the Lord.