The word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord:
“Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Write in a book all the words that I have spoken to you.
For behold, days are coming, says the Lord, when I will restore the fortunes of my people, Israel and Judah, says the Lord, and I will bring them back to the land which I gave to their fathers, and they shall take possession of it.”
These are the words which the Lord spoke concerning Israel and Judah:
“Thus says the Lord:We have heard a cry of panic,    of terror, and no peace.
Ask now, and see,    can a man bear a child?Why then do I see every man    with his hands on his loins like a woman in labor?    Why has every face turned pale?
Alas! that day is so great    there is none like it;it is a time of distress for Jacob;    yet he shall be saved out of it.
“And it shall come to pass in that day, says the Lord of hosts, that I will break the yoke from off their neck, and I will burst their bonds, and strangers shall no more make servants of them.
But they shall serve the Lord their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.
“Then fear not, O Jacob my servant, says the Lord,    nor be dismayed, O Israel;for lo, I will save you from afar,    and your offspring from the land of their captivity.Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease,    and none shall make him afraid.
For I am with you to save you,                says the Lord;I will make a full end of all the nations    among whom I scattered you,    but of you I will not make a full end.I will chasten you in just measure,    and I will by no means leave you unpunished.
“For thus says the Lord:Your hurt is incurable,    and your wound is grievous.
There is none to uphold your cause,    no medicine for your wound,    no healing for you.
All your lovers have forgotten you;    they care nothing for you;for I have dealt you the blow of an enemy,    the punishment of a merciless foe,because your guilt is great,    because your sins are flagrant.
Why do you cry out over your hurt?    Your pain is incurable.Because your guilt is great,    because your sins are flagrant,    I have done these things to you.
Therefore all who devour you shall be devoured,    and all your foes, every one of them, shall go into captivity;those who despoil you shall become a spoil,    and all who prey on you I will make a prey.
For I will restore health to you,    and your wounds I will heal,                says the Lord,because they have called you an outcast:    ‘It is Zion, for whom no one cares!’
“Thus says the Lord:Behold, I will restore the fortunes of the tents of Jacob,    and have compassion on his dwellings;the city shall be rebuilt upon its mound,    and the palace shall stand where it used to be.
Out of them shall come songs of thanksgiving,    and the voices of those who make merry.I will multiply them, and they shall not be few;    I will make them honored, and they shall not be small.
Their children shall be as they were of old,    and their congregation shall be established before me;    and I will punish all who oppress them.
Their prince shall be one of themselves,    their ruler shall come forth from their midst;I will make him draw near, and he shall approach me,    for who would dare of himself to approach me?                says the Lord.
And you shall be my people,    and I will be your God.”
Behold the storm of the Lord!    Wrath has gone forth,a whirling tempest;    it will burst upon the head of the wicked.
The fierce anger of the Lord will not turn back    until he has executed and accomplished    the intents of his mind.In the latter days you will understand this.