Concerning the Ammonites.Thus says the Lord:“Has Israel no sons?    Has he no heir?Why then has Milcom dispossessed Gad,    and his people settled in its cities?
Therefore, behold, the days are coming,    says the Lord,when I will cause the battle cry to be heard    against Rabbah of the Ammonites;it shall become a desolate mound,    and its villages shall be burned with fire;then Israel shall dispossess those who dispossessed him,    says the Lord.
“Wail, O Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste!    Cry, O daughters of Rabbah!Gird yourselves with sackcloth,    lament, and run to and fro among the hedges!For Milcom shall go into exile,    with his priests and his princes.
Why do you boast of your valleys,    O faithless daughter,who trusted in her treasures, saying,    ‘Who will come against me?’
Behold, I will bring terror upon you,    says the Lord God of hosts,    from all who are round about you,and you shall be driven out, every man straight before him,    with none to gather the fugitives.
But afterward I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, says the Lord.”
Concerning Edom.Thus says the Lord of hosts:“Is wisdom no more in Teman?    Has counsel perished from the prudent?    Has their wisdom vanished?
Flee, turn back, dwell in the depths,    O inhabitants of Dedan!For I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him,    the time when I punish him.
If grape-gatherers came to you,    would they not leave gleanings?If thieves came by night,    would they not destroy only enough for themselves?
But I have stripped Esau bare,    I have uncovered his hiding places,    and he is not able to conceal himself.His children are destroyed, and his brothers,    and his neighbors; and he is no more.
Leave your fatherless children, I will keep them alive;    and let your widows trust in me.”
For thus says the Lord: “If those who did not deserve to drink the cup must drink it, will you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you must drink.
For I have sworn by myself, says the Lord, that Bozrah shall become a horror, a taunt, a waste, and a curse; and all her cities shall be perpetual wastes.”
I have heard tidings from the Lord,    and a messenger has been sent among the nations:“Gather yourselves together and come against her,    and rise up for battle!”
For behold, I will make you small among the nations,    despised among men.
The horror you inspire has deceived you,    and the pride of your heart,you who live in the clefts of the rock,    who hold the height of the hill.Though you make your nest as high as the eagle’s,    I will bring you down from there,                says the Lord.
“Edom shall become a horror; every one who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all its disasters.
As when Sodom and Gomor′rah and their neighbor cities were overthrown, says the Lord, no man shall dwell there, no man shall sojourn in her.
Behold, like a lion coming up from the jungle of the Jordan against a strong sheepfold, I will suddenly make them run away from her; and I will appoint over her whomever I choose. For who is like me? Who will summon me? What shepherd can stand before me?
Therefore hear the plan which the Lord has made against Edom and the purposes which he has formed against the inhabitants of Teman: Even the little ones of the flock shall be dragged away; surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate.
At the sound of their fall the earth shall tremble; the sound of their cry shall be heard at the Red Sea.
Behold, one shall mount up and fly swiftly like an eagle, and spread his wings against Bozrah, and the heart of the warriors of Edom shall be in that day like the heart of a woman in her pangs.”
Concerning Damascus.“Hamath and Arpad are confounded,    for they have heard evil tidings;they melt in fear, they are troubled like the sea    which cannot be quiet.
Damascus has become feeble, she turned to flee,    and panic seized her;anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her,    as of a woman in travail.
How the famous city is forsaken,    the joyful city!
Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares,    and all her soldiers shall be destroyed in that day,                says the Lord of hosts.
And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus,    and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben-ha′dad.”
Concerning Kedar and the kingdoms of Hazor which Nebuchadrez′zar king of Babylon smote.Thus says the Lord:“Rise up, advance against Kedar!    Destroy the people of the east!
Their tents and their flocks shall be taken,    their curtains and all their goods;their camels shall be borne away from them,    and men shall cry to them: ‘Terror on every side!’
Flee, wander far away, dwell in the depths,    O inhabitants of Hazor!                says the Lord.For Nebuchadrez′zar king of Babylon    has made a plan against you,    and formed a purpose against you.
“Rise up, advance against a nation at ease,    that dwells securely,                says the Lord,that has no gates or bars,    that dwells alone.
Their camels shall become booty,    their herds of cattle a spoil.I will scatter to every wind    those who cut the corners of their hair,and I will bring their calamity    from every side of them,                says the Lord.
Hazor shall become a haunt of jackals,    an everlasting waste;no man shall dwell there,    no man shall sojourn in her.”
The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedeki′ah king of Judah.
Thus says the Lord of hosts: “Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the mainstay of their might;
and I will bring upon Elam the four winds from the four quarters of heaven; and I will scatter them to all those winds, and there shall be no nation to which those driven out of Elam shall not come.
I will terrify Elam before their enemies, and before those who seek their life; I will bring evil upon them, my fierce anger, says the Lord. I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them;
and I will set my throne in Elam, and destroy their king and princes, says the Lord.
“But in the latter days I will restore the fortunes of Elam, says the Lord.”