Zedeki′ah was twenty-one years old when he became king; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Hamu′tal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
And he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, according to all that Jehoi′akim had done.
Surely because of the anger of the Lord things came to such a pass in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them out from his presence.And Zedeki′ah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadrez′zar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem, and they laid siege to it and built siegeworks against it round about.
So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedeki′ah.
On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city, that there was no food for the people of the land.
Then a breach was made in the city; and all the men of war fled and went out from the city by night by the way of a gate between the two walls, by the king’s garden, while the Chalde′ans were round about the city. And they went in the direction of the Arabah.
But the army of the Chalde′ans pursued the king, and overtook Zedeki′ah in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him.
Then they captured the king, and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he passed sentence upon him.
The king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedeki′ah before his eyes, and also slew all the princes of Judah at Riblah.
He put out the eyes of Zedeki′ah, and bound him in fetters, and the king of Babylon took him to Babylon, and put him in prison till the day of his death.
In the fifth month, on the tenth day of the month—which was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadrez′zar, king of Babylon—Nebu′zarad′an the captain of the bodyguard who served the king of Babylon, entered Jerusalem.
And he burned the house of the Lord, and the king’s house and all the houses of Jerusalem; every great house he burned down.
And all the army of the Chalde′ans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down all the walls round about Jerusalem.
And Nebu′zarad′an the captain of the guard carried away captive some of the poorest of the people and the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the artisans.
But Nebu′zarad′an the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and plowmen.
And the pillars of bronze that were in the house of the Lord, and the stands and the bronze sea that were in the house of the Lord, the Chalde′ans broke in pieces, and carried all the bronze to Babylon.
And they took away the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the basins, and the dishes for incense, and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service;
also the small bowls, and the firepans, and the basins, and the pots, and the lampstands, and the dishes for incense, and the bowls for libation. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and what was of silver, as silver.
As for the two pillars, the one sea, the twelve bronze bulls which were under the sea, and the stands, which Solomon the king had made for the house of the Lord, the bronze of all these things was beyond weight.
As for the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, its circumference was twelve cubits, and its thickness was four fingers, and it was hollow.
Upon it was a capital of bronze; the height of the one capital was five cubits; a network and pomegranates, all of bronze, were upon the capital round about. And the second pillar had the like, with pomegranates.
There were ninety-six pomegranates on the sides; all the pomegranates were a hundred upon the network round about.
And the captain of the guard took Serai′ah the chief priest, and Zephani′ah the second priest, and the three keepers of the threshold;
and from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and seven men of the king’s council, who were found in the city; and the secretary of the commander of the army who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the midst of the city.
And Nebu′zarad′an the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.
And the king of Babylon smote them, and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried captive out of its land.
This is the number of the people whom Nebuchadrez′zar carried away captive: in the seventh year, three thousand and twenty-three Jews;
in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrez′zar he carried away captive from Jerusalem eight hundred and thirty-two persons;
in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadrez′zar, Nebu′zarad′an the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Jews seven hundred and forty-five persons; all the persons were four thousand and six hundred.
And in the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Jehoi′achin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-fifth day of the month, Evil-mer′odach king of Babylon, in the year that he became king, lifted up the head of Jehoi′achin king of Judah and brought him out of prison;
and he spoke kindly to him, and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon.
So Jehoi′achin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king’s table;
as for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king according to his daily need, until the day of his death as long as he lived.