I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers and sisters, that our ancestors were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea,
and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
and all ate the same spiritual food,
and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ.
Nevertheless, God was not pleased with most of them, and they were struck down in the wilderness.
Now these things occurred as examples for us, so that we might not desire evil as they did.
Do not become idolaters as some of them did, as it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink, and they rose up to play.”
We must not engage in sexual immorality, as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in a single day.
We must not put Christ to the test, as some of them did, and were destroyed by serpents.
And do not complain, as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer.
These things happened to them to serve as an example, and they were written down to instruct us, on whom the ends of the ages have come.
So if you think you are standing, watch out that you do not fall.
No testing has overtaken you that is not common to everyone. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tested beyond your strength, but with the testing he will also provide the way out so that you may be able to endure it.
Therefore, my beloved, flee from the worship of idols.
I speak as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say.
The cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a sharing in the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not a sharing in the body of Christ?
Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.
Consider the people of Israel: Are not those who eat the sacrifices partners in the altar?
What do I imply, then? That food sacrificed to idols is anything or that an idol is anything?
No, I imply that what they sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be partners with demons.
You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot partake of the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
Or are we provoking the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?
“All things are permitted,” but not all things are beneficial. “All things are permitted,” but not all things build up.
Do not seek your own advantage but that of the other.
Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience,
for “the earth and its fullness are the Lord’s.”
If an unbeliever invites you to a meal and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
But if someone says to you, “This has been offered in sacrifice,” then do not eat it, out of consideration for the one who informed you and for the sake of conscience—
I mean the other’s conscience, not your own. For why should my freedom be subject to the judgment of someone else’s conscience?
If I partake with thankfulness, why should I be denounced because of that for which I give thanks?
So, whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do everything for the glory of God.
Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of God,
just as I try to please everyone in everything I do, not seeking my own advantage but that of many, so that they may be saved.