James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ,To the twelve tribes in the dispersion:Greetings.
My brothers and sisters, whenever you face various trials, consider it all joy,
because you know that the testing of your faith produces endurance.
And let endurance complete its work, so that you may be complete and whole, lacking in nothing.
If any of you is lacking in wisdom, ask God, who gives to all generously and ungrudgingly, and it will be given you.
But ask in faith, never doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind.
,
For the doubter, being double-minded and unstable in every way, must not expect to receive anything from the Lord.
Let the brother or sister of humble means boast in having a high position
and the rich in having been humbled, because the rich will disappear like a flower in the field.
For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the field; its flower falls, and its beauty perishes. It is the same way with the rich; in the midst of a busy life, they will wither away.
Blessed is anyone who endures temptation. Such a one has stood the test and will receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised to those who love him.
No one, when tempted, should say, “I am being tempted by God,” for God cannot be tempted by evil and he himself tempts no one.
But one is tempted by one’s own desire, being lured and enticed by it;
then, when desire has conceived, it engenders sin, and sin, when it is fully grown, gives birth to death.
Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers and sisters.
Every generous act of giving, with every perfect gift, is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change.
In fulfillment of his own purpose he gave birth to us by the word of truth, so that we would become a kind of first fruits of his creatures.
You must understand this, my beloved brothers and sisters: let everyone be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to anger,
for human anger does not produce God’s righteousness.
Therefore rid yourselves of all sordidness and rank growth of wickedness, and welcome with meekness the implanted word that has the power to save your souls.
But be doers of the word and not merely hearers who deceive themselves.
For if any are hearers of the word and not doers, they are like those who look at themselves in a mirror;
for they look at themselves and, on going away, immediately forget what they were like.
But those who look into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and persevere, being not hearers who forget but doers who act—they will be blessed in their doing.
If any think they are religious and do not bridle their tongues but deceive their hearts, their religion is worthless.
Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this: to care for orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself unstained by the world.