Woe is me! For I have becomeas when the summer fruit has been gathered,    as when the vintage has been gleaned:there is no cluster to eat,    no first-ripe fig which my soul desires.
The godly man has perished from the earth,    and there is none upright among men;they all lie in wait for blood,    and each hunts his brother with a net.
Their hands are upon what is evil, to do it diligently;    the prince and the judge ask for a bribe,and the great man utters the evil desire of his soul;    thus they weave it together.
The best of them is like a brier,    the most upright of them a thorn hedge.The day of their watchmen, of their punishment, has come;    now their confusion is at hand.
Put no trust in a neighbor,    have no confidence in a friend;guard the doors of your mouth    from her who lies in your bosom;
for the son treats the father with contempt,    the daughter rises up against her mother,the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;    a man’s enemies are the men of his own house.
But as for me, I will look to the Lord,    I will wait for the God of my salvation;    my God will hear me.
Rejoice not over me, O my enemy;    when I fall, I shall rise;when I sit in darkness,    the Lord will be a light to me.
I will bear the indignation of the Lord    because I have sinned against him,until he pleads my cause    and executes judgment for me.He will bring me forth to the light;    I shall behold his deliverance.
Then my enemy will see,    and shame will cover her who said to me,    “Where is the Lord your God?”My eyes will gloat over her;    now she will be trodden down    like the mire of the streets.
A day for the building of your walls!    In that day the boundary shall be far extended.
In that day they will come to you,    from Assyria to Egypt,and from Egypt to the River,    from sea to sea and from mountain to mountain.
But the earth will be desolate    because of its inhabitants,    for the fruit of their doings.
Shepherd thy people with thy staff,    the flock of thy inheritance,who dwell alone in a forest    in the midst of a garden land;let them feed in Bashan and Gilead    as in the days of old.
As in the days when you came out of the land of Egypt    I will show them marvelous things.
The nations shall see and be ashamed    of all their might;they shall lay their hands on their mouths;    their ears shall be deaf;
they shall lick the dust like a serpent,    like the crawling things of the earth;they shall come trembling out of their strongholds,    they shall turn in dread to the Lord our God,    and they shall fear because of thee.
Who is a God like thee, pardoning iniquity    and passing over transgression    for the remnant of his inheritance?He does not retain his anger for ever    because he delights in steadfast love.
He will again have compassion upon us,    he will tread our iniquities under foot.Thou wilt cast all our sins    into the depths of the sea.
Thou wilt show faithfulness to Jacob    and steadfast love to Abraham,as thou hast sworn to our fathers    from the days of old.