This is the list of the descendants of Adam. When God created humans, he made them in the likeness of God.
Male and female he created them, and he blessed them and called them humans when they were created.
When Adam had lived one hundred thirty years, he became the father of a son in his likeness, according to his image, and named him Seth.
The days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were eight hundred years, and he had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years, and he died.
When Seth had lived one hundred five years, he became the father of Enosh.
Seth lived after the birth of Enosh eight hundred seven years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years, and he died.
When Enosh had lived ninety years, he became the father of Kenan.
Enosh lived after the birth of Kenan eight hundred fifteen years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years, and he died.
When Kenan had lived seventy years, he became the father of Mahalalel.
Kenan lived after the birth of Mahalalel eight hundred and forty years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Kenan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.
When Mahalalel had lived sixty-five years, he became the father of Jared.
Mahalalel lived after the birth of Jared eight hundred thirty years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years, and he died.
When Jared had lived one hundred sixty-two years he became the father of Enoch.
Jared lived after the birth of Enoch eight hundred years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years, and he died.
When Enoch had lived sixty-five years, he became the father of Methuselah.
Enoch walked with God after the birth of Methuselah three hundred years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years.
Enoch walked with God; then he was no more, because God took him.
When Methuselah had lived one hundred eighty-seven years, he became the father of Lamech.
Methuselah lived after the birth of Lamech seven hundred eighty-two years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, and he died.
When Lamech had lived one hundred eighty-two years, he became the father of a son;
he named him Noah, saying, “Out of the ground that the Lord has cursed this one shall bring us relief from our work and from the toil of our hands.”
Lamech lived after the birth of Noah five hundred ninety-five years and had other sons and daughters.
Thus all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, and he died.
After Noah was five hundred years old, Noah became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.