Therefore we must pay the closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it.
For if the message declared by angels was valid and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution,
how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard him,
while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his own will.
For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking.
It has been testified somewhere,“What is man that thou art mindful of him,or the son of man, that thou carest for him?
Thou didst make him for a little while lower than the angels,thou hast crowned him with glory and honor,
putting everything in subjection under his feet.”Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. As it is, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.
But we see Jesus, who for a little while was made lower than the angels, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for every one.
For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the pioneer of their salvation perfect through suffering.
For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified have all one origin. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
saying,“I will proclaim thy name to my brethren,in the midst of the congregation I will praise thee.”
And again,“I will put my trust in him.”And again,“Here am I, and the children God has given me.”
Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same nature, that through death he might destroy him who has the power of death, that is, the devil,
and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong bondage.
For surely it is not with angels that he is concerned but with the descendants of Abraham.
Therefore he had to be made like his brethren in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make expiation for the sins of the people.
For because he himself has suffered and been tempted, he is able to help those who are tempted.