The Lord said to Moses,
“Tell the Israelites to take for me an offering; from all whose hearts prompt them to give you shall receive the offering for me.
This is the offering that you shall receive from them: gold, silver, and bronze,
blue, purple, and crimson yarns and fine linen, goats’ hair,
tanned rams’ skins, fine leather, acacia wood,
oil for the lamps, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,
onyx stones and gems to be set in the ephod and for the breastpiece.
And they shall make me a sanctuary so that I may dwell among them.
In accordance with all that I show you concerning the pattern of the tabernacle and of all its furniture, so you shall make it.
“They shall make an ark of acacia wood; it shall be two and a half cubits long, a cubit and a half wide, and a cubit and a half high.
You shall overlay it with pure gold, inside and outside you shall overlay it, and you shall make a molding of gold upon it all around.
You shall cast four rings of gold for it and put them on its four feet, two rings on one side of it and two rings on the other side.
You shall make poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.
And you shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark, for carrying the ark.
The poles shall remain in the rings of the ark; they shall not be removed.
You shall put the covenant that I am giving you into the ark.
“Then you shall make a cover of pure gold; two cubits and a half shall be its length and a cubit and a half its width.
You shall make two cherubim of gold; you shall make them of hammered work at the two ends of the cover.
Make one cherub at one end and one cherub at the other; of one piece with the cover you shall make the cherubim at its two ends.
The cherubim shall spread out their wings above, overshadowing the cover with their wings. They shall face one to another; the faces of the cherubim shall be turned toward the cover.
You shall put the cover on the top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the covenant that I am giving you.
There I will meet with you, and from above the cover, from between the two cherubim that are on the ark of the covenant, I will tell you all that I am commanding you for the Israelites.
“You shall make a table of acacia wood, two cubits long, one cubit wide, and a cubit and a half high.
You shall overlay it with pure gold and make a molding of gold around it.
You shall make around it a rim a handbreadth wide and a molding of gold around the rim.
You shall make for it four rings of gold and fasten the rings to the four corners at its four legs.
The rings that hold the poles used for carrying the table shall be close to the rim.
You shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, and the table shall be carried with these.
You shall make its plates and dishes and its flagons and bowls with which to pour drink offerings; you shall make them of pure gold.
And you shall set the bread of the Presence on the table before me continually.
“You shall make a lampstand of pure gold. The base and the shaft of the lampstand shall be made of hammered work; its cups, its calyxes, and its petals shall be of one piece with it;
and there shall be six branches going out of its sides: three branches of the lampstand out of one side of it and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side of it;
three cups shaped like almond blossoms, each with calyx and petals, on one branch, and three cups shaped like almond blossoms, each with calyx and petals, on the other branch—so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
On the lampstand itself there shall be four cups shaped like almond blossoms, each with its calyxes and petals.
There shall be a calyx of one piece with it under the first pair of branches, a calyx of one piece with it under the next pair of branches, and a calyx of one piece with it under the last pair of branches—so for the six branches that go out of the lampstand.
Their calyxes and their branches shall be of one piece with it, the whole of it one hammered piece of pure gold.
You shall make seven lamps for it, and the lamps shall be set up so as to give light on the space in front of it.
Its snuffers and trays shall be of pure gold.
It and all these utensils shall be made from a talent of pure gold.
And see that you make them according to the pattern for them, which is being shown you on the mountain.