He made the altar of burnt offering of acacia wood; it was five cubits long and five cubits wide; it was square and was three cubits high.
He made horns for it on its four corners; its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze.
He made all the utensils of the altar: the pots, the shovels, the basins, the forks, and the firepans; all its utensils he made of bronze.
He made for the altar a grating, a network of bronze, under its ledge, extending halfway down.
He cast four rings on the four corners of the bronze grating to hold the poles;
he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze.
And he put the poles through the rings on the sides of the altar, to carry it with them; he made it hollow, with boards.
He made the basin of bronze with its stand of bronze, from the mirrors of the women who served at the entrance to the tent of meeting.
He made the court; for the south side the hangings of the court were of fine twisted linen, one hundred cubits long;
its twenty pillars and their twenty bases were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver.
For the north side there were hangings one hundred cubits long; its twenty pillars and their twenty bases were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver.
For the west side there were hangings fifty cubits long, with ten pillars and ten bases; the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver.
And for the front to the east, fifty cubits.
The hangings for one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, with three pillars and three bases.
And likewise for the other side: on each side of the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits, with three pillars and three bases.
All the hangings around the court were of fine twisted linen.
The bases for the pillars were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their bands were of silver; the overlaying of their capitals was also of silver, and all the pillars of the court were banded with silver.
The screen for the entrance to the court was embroidered with needlework in blue, purple, and crimson yarns and fine twisted linen. It was twenty cubits long and, along the width of it, five cubits high, corresponding to the hangings of the court.
There were four pillars; their four bases were of bronze, their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their bands of silver.
All the pegs for the tabernacle and for the court all around were of bronze.
These are the records of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the covenant, which were drawn up at the commandment of Moses, the work of the Levites being under the direction of Ithamar son of the priest Aaron.
Bezalel son of Uri son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the Lord commanded Moses,
and with him was Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, engraver, designer, and embroiderer in blue, purple, and crimson yarns and in fine linen.
All the gold that was used for the work, in all the construction of the sanctuary, the gold from the offering, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred thirty shekels, measured by the sanctuary shekel.
The silver from those of the congregation who were counted was one hundred talents and one thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels, measured by the sanctuary shekel,
a beka a head (that is, half a shekel, measured by the sanctuary shekel) for everyone who was counted in the census, from twenty years old and up, for six hundred three thousand, five hundred fifty men.
The hundred talents of silver were for casting the bases of the sanctuary and the bases of the curtain, one hundred bases for the hundred talents, one talent per base.
Of the thousand seven hundred seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars and overlaid their capitals and made bands for them.
The bronze offering was seventy talents and two thousand four hundred shekels;
with it he made the bases for the entrance of the tent of meeting, the bronze altar and the bronze grating for it and all the utensils of the altar,
the bases all around the court, and the bases of the gate of the court, all the pegs of the tabernacle, and all the pegs around the court.