So Abi′jah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land had rest for ten years.
And Asa did what was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God.
He took away the foreign altars and the high places, and broke down the pillars and hewed down the Ashe′rim,
and commanded Judah to seek the Lord, the God of their fathers, and to keep the law and the commandment.
He also took out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the incense altars. And the kingdom had rest under him.
He built fortified cities in Judah, for the land had rest. He had no war in those years, for the Lord gave him peace.
And he said to Judah, “Let us build these cities, and surround them with walls and towers, gates and bars; the land is still ours, because we have sought the Lord our God; we have sought him, and he has given us peace on every side.” So they built and prospered.
And Asa had an army of three hundred thousand from Judah, armed with bucklers and spears, and two hundred and eighty thousand men from Benjamin, that carried shields and drew bows; all these were mighty men of valor.
Zerah the Ethiopian came out against them with an army of a million men and three hundred chariots, and came as far as Mare′shah.
And Asa went out to meet him, and they drew up their lines of battle in the valley of Zeph′athah at Mare′shah.
And Asa cried to the Lord his God, “O Lord, there is none like thee to help, between the mighty and the weak. Help us, O Lord our God, for we rely on thee, and in thy name we have come against this multitude. O Lord, thou art our God; let not man prevail against thee.”
So the Lord defeated the Ethiopians before Asa and before Judah, and the Ethiopians fled.
Asa and the people that were with him pursued them as far as Gerar, and the Ethiopians fell until none remained alive; for they were broken before the Lord and his army. The men of Judah carried away very much booty.
And they smote all the cities round about Gerar, for the fear of the Lord was upon them. They plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them.
And they smote the tents of those who had cattle, and carried away sheep in abundance and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.