Now when the wall had been built and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers, the singers, and the Levites had been appointed,
I gave my brother Hana′ni and Hanani′ah the governor of the castle charge over Jerusalem, for he was a more faithful and God-fearing man than many.
And I said to them, “Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; and while they are still standing guard let them shut and bar the doors. Appoint guards from among the inhabitants of Jerusalem, each to his station and each opposite his own house.”
The city was wide and large, but the people within it were few and no houses had been built.
Then God put it into my mind to assemble the nobles and the officials and the people to be enrolled by genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of those who came up at the first, and I found written in it:
These were the people of the province who came up out of the captivity of those exiles whom Nebuchadnez′zar the king of Babylon had carried into exile; they returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his town.
They came with Zerub′babel, Jeshua, Nehemi′ah, Azari′ah, Raami′ah, Naham′ani, Mor′decai, Bilshan, Mis′pereth, Big′vai, Nehum, Ba′anah.The number of the men of the people of Israel:
the sons of Parosh, two thousand a hundred and seventy-two.
The sons of Shephati′ah, three hundred and seventy-two.
The sons of Arah, six hundred and fifty-two.
The sons of Pa′hath-mo′ab, namely the sons of Jeshua and Jo′ab, two thousand eight hundred and eighteen.
The sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four.
The sons of Zattu, eight hundred and forty-five.
The sons of Zac′cai, seven hundred and sixty.
The sons of Bin′nui, six hundred and forty-eight.
The sons of Be′bai, six hundred and twenty-eight.
The sons of Azgad, two thousand three hundred and twenty-two.
The sons of Adoni′kam, six hundred and sixty-seven.
The sons of Big′vai, two thousand and sixty-seven.
The sons of Adin, six hundred and fifty-five.
The sons of Ater, namely of Hezeki′ah, ninety-eight.
The sons of Hashum, three hundred and twenty-eight.
The sons of Be′zai, three hundred and twenty-four.
The sons of Hariph, a hundred and twelve.
The sons of Gibeon, ninety-five.
The men of Bethlehem and Neto′phah, a hundred and eighty-eight.
The men of An′athoth, a hundred and twenty-eight.
The men of Beth-az′maveth, forty-two.
The men of Kir′iath-je′arim, Chephi′rah, and Be-er′oth, seven hundred and forty-three.
The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty-one.
The men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty-two.
The men of Bethel and Ai, a hundred and twenty-three.
The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two.
The sons of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred and fifty-four.
The sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty.
The sons of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five.
The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-one.
The sons of Sena′ah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.
The priests: the sons of Jedai′ah, namely the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three.
The sons of Immer, a thousand and fifty-two.
The sons of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred and forty-seven.
The sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.
The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, namely of Kad′mi-el of the sons of Ho′devah, seventy-four.
The singers: the sons of Asaph, a hundred and forty-eight.
The gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hati′ta, the sons of Sho′bai, a hundred and thirty-eight.
The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasu′pha, the sons of Tabba′oth,
the sons of Keros, the sons of Si′a, the sons of Padon,
the sons of Leba′na, the sons of Hag′aba, the sons of Shalmai,
the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar,
the sons of Re-ai′ah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Neko′da,
the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Pase′ah,
the sons of Besai, the sons of Me-u′nim, the sons of Nephush′esim,
the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Haku′pha, the sons of Harhur,
the sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehi′da, the sons of Harsha,
the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sis′era, the sons of Temah,
the sons of Nezi′ah, the sons of Hati′pha.
The sons of Solomon’s servants: the sons of So′tai, the sons of So′phereth, the sons of Peri′da,
the sons of Ja′ala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
the sons of Shephati′ah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Po′chereth-hazzeba′im, the sons of Amon.
All the temple servants and the sons of Solomon’s servants were three hundred and ninety-two.
The following were those who came up from Tel-me′lah, Tel-har′sha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer, but they could not prove their fathers’ houses nor their descent, whether they belonged to Israel:
the sons of Delai′ah, the sons of Tobi′ah, the sons of Neko′da, six hundred and forty-two.
Also, of the priests: the sons of Hobai′ah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzil′lai (who had taken a wife of the daughters of Barzil′lai the Gileadite and was called by their name).
These sought their registration among those enrolled in the genealogies, but it was not found there, so they were excluded from the priesthood as unclean;
the governor told them that they were not to partake of the most holy food, until a priest with Urim and Thummim should arise.
The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty,
besides their menservants and maidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven; and they had two hundred and forty-five singers, male and female.
Their horses were seven hundred and thirty-six, their mules two hundred and forty-five,
their camels four hundred and thirty-five, and their asses six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
Now some of the heads of fathers’ houses gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury a thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, five hundred and thirty priests’ garments.
And some of the heads of fathers’ houses gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold and two thousand two hundred minas of silver.
And what the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold, two thousand minas of silver, and sixty-seven priests’ garments.
So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the temple servants, and all Israel, lived in their towns.And when the seventh month had come, the children of Israel were in their towns.