These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Is′sachar, Zeb′ulun,
Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naph′tali, Gad, and Asher.
The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah; these three Bath-shu′a the Canaanitess bore to him. Now Er, Judah’s first-born, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and he slew him.
His daughter-in-law Tamar also bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, five in all.
The sons of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the matter of the devoted thing;
and Ethan’s son was Azari′ah.
The sons of Hezron, that were born to him: Jerah′meel, Ram, and Chelu′bai.
Ram was the father of Ammin′adab, and Ammin′adab was the father of Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah.
Nahshon was the father of Salma, Salma of Bo′az,
Bo′az of Obed, Obed of Jesse.
Jesse was the father of Eli′ab his first-born, Abin′adab the second, Shim′e-a the third,
Nethan′el the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh;
and their sisters were Zeru′iah and Ab′igail. The sons of Zeru′iah: Abi′shai, Jo′ab, and As′ahel, three.
Ab′igail bore Ama′sa, and the father of Ama′sa was Jether the Ish′maelite.
Caleb the son of Hezron had children by his wife Azu′bah, and by Jer′ioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
When Azu′bah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri was the father of Bez′alel.
Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old; and she bore him Segub;
and Segub was the father of Ja′ir, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
But Geshur and Aram took from them Hav′voth-ja′ir, Kenath and its villages, sixty towns. All these were descendants of Machir, the father of Gilead.
After the death of Hezron, Caleb went in to Eph′rathah, the wife of Hezron his father, and she bore him Ashhur, the father of Teko′a.
The sons of Jerah′meel, the first-born of Hezron: Ram, his first-born, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahi′jah.
Jerah′meel also had another wife, whose name was At′arah; she was the mother of Onam.
The sons of Ram, the first-born of Jerah′meel: Ma′az, Jamin, and Eker.
The sons of Onam: Sham′mai and Jada. The sons of Sham′mai: Nadab and Abi′shur.
The name of Abi′shur’s wife was Ab′ihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid.
The sons of Nadab: Seled and Ap′pa-im; and Seled died childless.
The sons of Ap′pa-im: Ishi. The sons of Ishi: Sheshan. The sons of Sheshan: Ahlai.
The sons of Jada, Sham′mai’s brother: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether died childless.
The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerah′meel.
Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters; but Sheshan had an Egyptian slave, whose name was Jarha.
So Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to Jarha his slave; and she bore him Attai.
Attai was the father of Nathan and Nathan of Zabad.
Zabad was the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal of Obed.
Obed was the father of Jehu, and Jehu of Azari′ah.
Azari′ah was the father of Helez, and Helez of Ele-a′sah.
Ele-a′sah was the father of Sismai, and Sismai of Shallum.
Shallum was the father of Jekami′ah, and Jekami′ah of Elish′ama.
The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerah′meel: Mare′shah his first-born, who was the father of Ziph. The sons of Mare′shah: Hebron.
The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tap′puah, Rekem, and Shema.
Shema was the father of Raham, the father of Jor′ke-am; and Rekem was the father of Sham′mai.
The son of Sham′mai: Ma′on; and Ma′on was the father of Beth-zur.
Ephah also, Caleb’s concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; and Haran was the father of Gazez.
The sons of Jah′dai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Sha′aph.
Ma′acah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Sheber and Tir′hanah.
She also bore Sha′aph the father of Madman′nah, Sheva the father of Machbe′nah and the father of Gib′e-a; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
These were the descendants of Caleb.The sons of Hur the first-born of Eph′rathah: Shobal the father of Kir′iath-je′arim,
Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
Shobal the father of Kir′iath-je′arim had other sons: Haro′eh, half of the Menu′hoth.
And the families of Kir′iath-je′arim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shu′mathites, and the Mish′raites; from these came the Zo′rathites and the Esh′taolites.
The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netoph′athites, At′roth-beth-jo′ab, and half of the Man′aha′thites, the Zorites.
The families also of the scribes that dwelt at Jabez: the Ti′rathites, the Shim′e-athites, and the Su′cathites. These are the Ken′ites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.