David and the chiefs of the service also set apart for the service certain of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jedu′thun, who should prophesy with lyres, with harps, and with cymbals. The list of those who did the work and of their duties was:
Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethani′ah, and Ashare′lah, sons of Asaph, under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king.
Of Jedu′thun, the sons of Jedu′thun: Gedali′ah, Zeri, Jeshai′ah, Shim′e-i, Hashabi′ah, and Mattithi′ah, six, under the direction of their father Jedu′thun, who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the Lord.
Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukki′ah, Mattani′ah, Uz′ziel, Shebu′el, and Jer′imoth, Hanani′ah, Hana′ni, Eli′athah, Giddal′ti, and Romam′ti-e′zer, Joshbekash′ah, Mallo′thi, Hothir, Maha′zi-oth.
All these were the sons of Heman the king’s seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him; for God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
They were all under the direction of their father in the music in the house of the Lord with cymbals, harps, and lyres for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jedu′thun, and Heman were under the order of the king.
The number of them along with their brethren, who were trained in singing to the Lord, all who were skilful, was two hundred and eighty-eight.
And they cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and pupil alike.
The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedali′ah, to him and his brethren and his sons, twelve;
the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the fifth to Nethani′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the sixth to Bukki′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the seventh to Jeshare′lah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the eighth to Jeshai′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the ninth to Mattani′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the tenth to Shim′e-i, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the eleventh to Az′arel, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
the twelfth to Hashabi′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the thirteenth, Shu′ba-el, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the fourteenth, Mattithi′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the fifteenth, to Jer′emoth, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the sixteenth, to Hanani′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the seventeenth, to Joshbekash′ah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the eighteenth, to Hana′ni, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the nineteenth, to Mallo′thi, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the twentieth, to Eli′athah, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the twenty-second, to Giddal′ti, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the twenty-third, to Maha′zi-oth, his sons and his brethren, twelve;
to the twenty-fourth, to Romam′ti-e′zer, his sons and his brethren, twelve.