The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merar′i.
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uz′ziel.
The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abi′hu, Elea′zar, and Ith′amar.
Elea′zar was the father of Phin′ehas, Phin′ehas of Abishu′a,
Abishu′a of Bukki, Bukki of Uzzi,
Uzzi of Zerahi′ah, Zerahi′ah of Merai′oth,
Merai′oth of Amari′ah, Amari′ah of Ahi′tub,
Ahi′tub of Zadok, Zadok of Ahim′a-az,
Ahim′a-az of Azari′ah, Azari′ah of Joha′nan,
and Joha′nan of Azari′ah (it was he who served as priest in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem).
Azari′ah was the father of Amari′ah, Amari′ah of Ahi′tub,
Ahi′tub of Zadok, Zadok of Shallum,
Shallum of Hilki′ah, Hilki′ah of Azari′ah,
Azari′ah of Serai′ah, Serai′ah of Jehoz′adak;
and Jehoz′adak went into exile when the Lord sent Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnez′zar.
The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merar′i.
And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shim′e-i.
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uz′ziel.
The sons of Merar′i: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their fathers.
Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
Jo′ah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Je-ath′erai his son.
The sons of Kohath: Ammin′adab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
Elka′nah his son, Ebi′asaph his son, Assir his son,
Tahath his son, U′riel his son, Uzzi′ah his son, and Shaul his son.
The sons of Elka′nah: Ama′sai and Ahi′moth,
Elka′nah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
Eli′ab his son, Jero′ham his son, Elka′nah his son.
The sons of Samuel: Jo′el his first-born, the second Abi′jah.
The sons of Merar′i: Mahli, Libni his son, Shim′e-i his son, Uzzah his son,
Shim′e-a his son, Haggi′ah his son, and Asai′ah his son.
These are the men whom David put in charge of the service of song in the house of the Lord, after the ark rested there.
They ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, until Solomon had built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem; and they performed their service in due order.
These are the men who served and their sons. Of the sons of the Ko′hathites: Heman the singer the son of Jo′el, son of Samuel,
son of Elka′nah, son of Jero′ham, son of Eli′el, son of To′ah,
son of Zuph, son of Elka′nah, son of Mahath, son of Ama′sai,
son of Elka′nah, son of Jo′el, son of Azari′ah, son of Zephani′ah,
son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebi′asaph, son of Korah,
son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel;
and his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, namely, Asaph the son of Berechi′ah, son of Shim′e-a,
son of Michael, son of Ba-ase′iah, son of Malchi′jah,
son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adai′ah,
son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shim′e-i,
son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
On the left hand were their brethren the sons of Merar′i: Ethan the son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,
son of Hashabi′ah, son of Amazi′ah, son of Hilki′ah,
son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer,
son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merar′i, son of Levi;
and their brethren the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
But Aaron and his sons made offerings upon the altar of burnt offering and upon the altar of incense for all the work of the most holy place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
These are the sons of Aaron: Elea′zar his son, Phin′ehas his son, Abishu′a his son,
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahi′ah his son,
Merai′oth his son, Amari′ah his son, Ahi′tub his son,
Zadok his son, Ahim′a-az his son.
These are their dwelling places according to their settlements within their borders: to the sons of Aaron of the families of Ko′hathites, for theirs was the lot,
to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah and its surrounding pasture lands,
but the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephun′neh.
To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemo′a with its pasture lands,
Hilen with its pasture lands, Debir with its pasture lands,
Ashan with its pasture lands, and Beth-she′mesh with its pasture lands;
and from the tribe of Benjamin, Geba with its pasture lands, Al′emeth with its pasture lands, and An′athoth with its pasture lands. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen.
To the rest of the Ko′hathites were given by lot out of the family of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half of Manas′seh, ten cities.
To the Gershomites according to their families were allotted thirteen cities out of the tribes of Is′sachar, Asher, Naph′tali, and Manas′seh in Bashan.
To the Merar′ites according to their families were allotted twelve cities out of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zeb′ulun.
So the people of Israel gave the Levites the cities with their pasture lands.
They also gave them by lot out of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin these cities which are mentioned by name.
And some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their territory out of the tribe of E′phraim.
They were given the cities of refuge: Shechem with its pasture lands in the hill country of E′phraim, Gezer with its pasture lands,
Jok′me-am with its pasture lands, Beth-hor′on with its pasture lands,
Ai′jalon with its pasture lands, Gath-rim′mon with its pasture lands,
and out of the half-tribe of Manas′seh, Aner with its pasture lands, and Bil′e-am with its pasture lands, for the rest of the families of the Ko′hathites.
To the Gershomites were given out of the half-tribe of Manas′seh: Golan in Bashan with its pasture lands and Ash′taroth with its pasture lands;
and out of the tribe of Is′sachar: Kedesh with its pasture lands, Dab′erath with its pasture lands,
Ramoth with its pasture lands, and Anem with its pasture lands;
out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands,
Hukok with its pasture lands, and Rehob with its pasture lands;
and out of the tribe of Naph′tali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasture lands, Ham′mon with its pasture lands, and Kiriatha′im with its pasture lands.
To the rest of the Merar′ites were allotted out of the tribe of Zeb′ulun: Rim′mono with its pasture lands, Tabor with its pasture lands,
and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the steppe with its pasture lands, Jahzah with its pasture lands,
Ked′emoth with its pasture lands, and Meph′a-ath with its pasture lands;
and out of the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasture lands, Mahana′im with its pasture lands,
Heshbon with its pasture lands, and Jazer with its pasture lands.