The sons of Is′sachar: Tola, Pu′ah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.
The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Repha′iah, Je′ri-el, Jah′mai, Ibsam, and Shemu′el, heads of their fathers’ houses, namely of Tola, mighty warriors of their generations, their number in the days of David being twenty-two thousand six hundred.
The sons of Uzzi: Izrahi′ah. And the sons of Izrahi′ah: Michael, Obadi′ah, Jo′el, and Isshi′ah, five, all of them chief men;
and along with them, by their generations, according to their fathers’ houses, were units of the army for war, thirty-six thousand, for they had many wives and sons.
Their kinsmen belonging to all the families of Is′sachar were in all eighty-seven thousand mighty warriors, enrolled by genealogy.
The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, and Jedi′a-el, three.
The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uz′ziel, Jer′imoth, and Iri, five, heads of fathers’ houses, mighty warriors; and their enrollment by genealogies was twenty-two thousand and thirty-four.
The sons of Becher: Zemi′rah, Jo′ash, Elie′zer, Eli-o-e′nai, Omri, Jer′emoth, Abi′jah, An′athoth, and Al′emeth. All these were the sons of Becher;
and their enrollment by genealogies, according to their generations, as heads of their fathers’ houses, mighty warriors, was twenty thousand two hundred.
The sons of Jedi′a-el: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Je′ush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chena′anah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahish′ahar.
All these were the sons of Jedi′a-el according to the heads of their fathers’ houses, mighty warriors, seventeen thousand and two hundred, ready for service in war.
And Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir, Hushim the sons of Aher.
The sons of Naph′tali: Jah′zi-el, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, the offspring of Bilhah.
The sons of Manas′seh: As′ri-el, whom his Aramean concubine bore; she bore Machir the father of Gilead.
And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim. The name of his sister was Ma′acah. And the name of the second was Zelo′phehad; and Zelo′phehad had daughters.
And Ma′acah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
The sons of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, son of Manas′seh.
And his sister Hammo′lecheth bore Ishhod, Abi-e′zer, and Mahlah.
The sons of Shemi′da were Ahi′an, Shechem, Likhi, and Ani′am.
The sons of E′phraim: Shuthe′lah, and Bered his son, Tahath his son, Ele-a′dah his son, Tahath his son,
Zabad his son, Shuthe′lah his son, and Ezer and E′le-ad, whom the men of Gath who were born in the land slew, because they came down to raid their cattle.
And E′phraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
And E′phraim went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son; and he called his name Beri′ah, because evil had befallen his house.
His daughter was She′erah, who built both Lower and Upper Beth-hor′on, and Uz′zen-she′erah.
Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, Telah his son, Tahan his son,
Ladan his son, Ammi′hud his son, Elish′ama his son,
Nun his son, Joshua his son.
Their possessions and settlements were Bethel and its towns, and eastward Na′aran, and westward Gezer and its towns, Shechem and its towns, and Ayyah and its towns;
also along the borders of the Manas′sites, Beth-she′an and its towns, Ta′anach and its towns, Megid′do and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these dwelt the sons of Joseph the son of Israel.
The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beri′ah, and their sister Serah.
The sons of Beri′ah: Heber and Mal′chi-el, who was the father of Bir′zaith.
Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shu′a.
The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the sons of Japhlet.
The sons of Shemer his brother: Rohgah, Jehub′bah, and Aram.
The sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal.
The sons of Zophah: Su′ah, Har′nepher, Shu′al, Beri, Imrah.
Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Be-e′ra.
The sons of Jether: Jephun′neh, Pispa, and Ara.
The sons of Ulla: Arah, Han′niel, and Rizi′a.
All of these were men of Asher, heads of fathers’ houses, approved, mighty warriors, chief of the princes. Their number enrolled by genealogies, for service in war, was twenty-six thousand men.