Benjamin was the father of Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, Ahar′ah the third,
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abi′hud,
Abishu′a, Na′aman, Aho′ah,
Gera, Shephu′phan, and Huram.
These are the sons of Ehud (they were heads of fathers’ houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried into exile to Man′ahath):
Na′aman, Ahi′jah, and Gera, that is, Heglam, who was the father of Uzza and Ahi′hud.
And Shahara′im had sons in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Ba′ara his wives.
He had sons by Hodesh his wife: Jobab, Zib′i-a, Mesha, Malcam,
Je′uz, Sachi′a, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers’ houses.
He also had sons by Hushim: Abi′tub and Elpa′al.
The sons of Elpa′al: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod with its towns,
and Beri′ah and Shema (they were heads of fathers’ houses of the inhabitants of Ai′jalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath);
and Ahi′o, Shashak, and Jer′emoth.
Zebadi′ah, Arad, Eder,
Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beri′ah.
Zebadi′ah, Meshul′lam, Hizki, Heber,
Ish′merai, Izli′ah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpa′al.
Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
Eli-e′nai, Zil′lethai, Eli′el,
Adai′ah, Bera′iah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shim′e-i.
Ishpan, Eber, Eli′el,
Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
Hanani′ah, Elam, Anthothi′jah,
Iphde′iah, and Penu′el were the sons of Shashak.
Sham′sherai, Shehari′ah, Athali′ah,
Ja-areshi′ah, Eli′jah, and Zichri were the sons of Jero′ham.
These were the heads of fathers’ houses, according to their generations, chief men. These dwelt in Jerusalem.
Je-i′el the father of Gibeon dwelt in Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Ma′acah.
His first-born son: Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Ba′al, Nadab,
Gedor, Ahi′o, Zecher,
and Mikloth (he was the father of Shim′e-ah). Now these also dwelt opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with their kinsmen.
Ner was the father of Kish, Kish of Saul, Saul of Jonathan, Mal′chishu′a, Abin′adab, and Esh-ba′al;
and the son of Jonathan was Mer′ib-ba′al; and Mer′ib-ba′al was the father of Micah.
The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tare′a, and Ahaz.
Ahaz was the father of Jeho′addah; and Jeho′addah was the father of Al′emeth, Az′maveth, and Zimri; Zimri was the father of Moza.
Moza was the father of Bin′e-a; Raphah was his son, Ele-a′sah his son, Azel his son.
Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azri′kam, Bo′cheru, Ish′mael, She-ari′ah, Obadi′ah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his first-born, Je′ush the second, and Eliph′elet the third.
The sons of Ulam were men who were mighty warriors, bowmen, having many sons and grandsons, one hundred and fifty. All these were Benjaminites.