“Suppose two persons have a dispute and enter into litigation, and the judges decide between them, declaring one to be in the right and the other to be in the wrong.
If the one in the wrong deserves to be flogged, the judge shall make that person lie down and be beaten in his presence with the number of lashes proportionate to the offense.
Forty lashes may be given but not more; if more lashes than these are given, your neighbor will be degraded in your sight.
“You shall not muzzle an ox while it is treading out the grain.
“When brothers reside together and one of them dies and has no son, the wife of the deceased shall not be married outside the family to a stranger. Her husband’s brother shall go in to her, taking her in marriage and performing the duty of a husband’s brother to her,
and the firstborn whom she bears shall succeed to the name of the deceased brother, so that his name may not be blotted out of Israel.
But if the man has no desire to marry his brother’s widow, then his brother’s widow shall go up to the elders at the gate and say, ‘My husband’s brother refuses to perpetuate his brother’s name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband’s brother to me.’
Then the elders of his town shall summon him and speak to him. If he persists, saying, ‘I have no desire to marry her,’
then his brother’s wife shall go up to him in the presence of the elders, pull his sandal off his foot, spit in his face, and declare, ‘This is what is done to the man who does not build up his brother’s house.’
Throughout Israel his family shall be known as ‘the house of him whose sandal was pulled off.’
“If men get into a fight with one another and the wife of one intervenes to rescue her husband from the grip of his opponent by reaching out and seizing his genitals,
you shall cut off her hand; show no pity.
“You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, large and small.
You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, large and small.
You shall have only a full and honest weight; you shall have only a full and honest measure, so that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you.
For all who do such things, all who act dishonestly, are abhorrent to the Lord your God.
“Remember what Amalek did to you on your journey out of Egypt,
how he attacked you on the way, when you were faint and weary, and struck down all who lagged behind you; he did not fear God.
Therefore when the Lord your God has given you rest from all your enemies on every hand, in the land that the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance to possess, you shall blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven; do not forget.