Moses convened all Israel and said to them:“Hear, O Israel, the statutes and ordinances that I am addressing to you today; you shall learn them and observe them diligently.
The Lord our God made a covenant with us at Horeb.
Not with our ancestors did the Lord make this covenant but with us, who are all of us here alive today.
The Lord spoke with you face to face at the mountain, out of the fire.
(At that time I was standing between the Lord and you to declare to you the word of the Lord, for you were afraid because of the fire and did not go up the mountain.) And he said:
“ ‘I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery;
you shall have no other gods before me.
“ ‘You shall not make for yourself an idol, whether in the form of anything that is in heaven above or that is on the earth beneath or that is in the water under the earth.
You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your God am a jealous God, punishing children for the iniquity of parents to the third and fourth generation of those who reject me
but showing steadfast love to the thousandth generation of those who love me and keep my commandments.
“ ‘You shall not make wrongful use of the name of the Lord your God, for the Lord will not acquit anyone who misuses his name.
“ ‘Observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy, as the Lord your God commanded you.
Six days you shall labor and do all your work.
But the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God; you shall not do any work—you, or your son or your daughter, or your male or female slave, or your ox or your donkey, or any of your livestock, or the resident alien in your towns, so that your male and female slave may rest as well as you.
Remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm; therefore the Lord your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.
“ ‘Honor your father and your mother, as the Lord your God commanded you, so that your days may be long and that it may go well with you in the land that the Lord your God is giving you.
“ ‘You shall not murder.
“ ‘Neither shall you commit adultery.
“ ‘Neither shall you steal.
“ ‘Neither shall you bear false witness against your neighbor.
“ ‘Neither shall you covet your neighbor’s wife.“ ‘Neither shall you desire your neighbor’s house, or field, or male or female slave, or ox, or donkey, or anything that belongs to your neighbor.’ ”
“These words the Lord spoke with a loud voice to your whole assembly at the mountain, out of the fire, the cloud, and the thick darkness, and he added no more. He wrote them on two stone tablets and gave them to me.
When you heard the voice out of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, you approached me, all the heads of your tribes and your elders,
and you said, ‘Look, the Lord our God has shown us his glory and greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the fire. We have seen this day that God may speak to someone and the person may still live.
But now why should we die? For this great fire will consume us; if we hear the voice of the Lord our God any longer, we shall die.
For who is there of all flesh that has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the fire, as we have, and lived?
Go near, you yourself, and hear all that the Lord our God will say. Then tell us everything that the Lord our God tells you, and we will listen and do it.’
“The Lord heard your words when you spoke to me, and the Lord said to me, ‘I have heard the words of this people, which they have spoken to you; they are right in all that they have spoken.
If only they had such a mind as this, to fear me and to keep all my commandments always, so that it might go well with them and with their children forever!
Go say to them, “Return to your tents.”
But you, stand here by me, and I will tell you all the commandments, the statutes and the ordinances, that you shall teach them, so that they may do them in the land that I am giving them to possess.’
You must therefore be careful to do as the Lord your God has commanded you; you shall not turn to the right or to the left.
You must follow exactly the path that the Lord your God has commanded you, so that you may live and that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land that you are to possess.