His son Jehoshaphat succeeded him and strengthened himself against Israel.
He placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim that his father Asa had taken.
The Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the earlier ways of his father; he did not seek the Baals
but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments and not according to the ways of Israel.
Therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand. All Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor.
His heart was courageous in the ways of the Lord; furthermore, he removed the high places and the sacred poles from Judah.
In the third year of his reign he sent his officials Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah to teach in the cities of Judah.
With them were the Levites Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tob-adonijah; and with these Levites the priests Elishama and Jehoram.
They taught in Judah, having the book of the law of the Lord with them; they went around through all the cities of Judah and taught among the people.
The fear of the Lord fell on all the kingdoms of the lands around Judah, and they did not make war against Jehoshaphat.
Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute, and the Arabs also brought him seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred male goats.
Jehoshaphat grew steadily greater. He built fortresses and storage cities in Judah.
He carried out great works in the cities of Judah. He had soldiers, mighty warriors, in Jerusalem.
This was the muster of them by ancestral houses: Of Judah, the commanders of the thousands: Adnah the commander, with three hundred thousand mighty warriors,
and next to him Jehohanan the commander, with two hundred eighty thousand,
and next to him Amasiah son of Zichri, a volunteer for the service of the Lord, with two hundred thousand mighty warriors.
Of Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty warrior, with two hundred thousand armed with bow and shield,
and next to him Jehozabad with one hundred eighty thousand armed for war.
These were in the service of the king, besides those whom the king had placed in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.