Make love your aim, and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy.
For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.
On the other hand, he who prophesies speaks to men for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation.
He who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church.
Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. He who prophesies is greater than he who speaks in tongues, unless some one interprets, so that the church may be edified.
Now, brethren, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how shall I benefit you unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching?
If even lifeless instruments, such as the flute or the harp, do not give distinct notes, how will any one know what is played?
And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle?
So with yourselves; if you in a tongue utter speech that is not intelligible, how will any one know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air.
There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning;
but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I shall be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me.
So with yourselves; since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.
Therefore, he who speaks in a tongue should pray for the power to interpret.
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unfruitful.
What am I to do? I will pray with the spirit and I will pray with the mind also; I will sing with the spirit and I will sing with the mind also.
Otherwise, if you bless with the spirit, how can any one in the position of an outsider say the “Amen” to your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?
For you may give thanks well enough, but the other man is not edified.
I thank God that I speak in tongues more than you all;
nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind, in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
Brethren, do not be children in your thinking; be babes in evil, but in thinking be mature.
In the law it is written, “By men of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord.”
Thus, tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is not for unbelievers but for believers.
If, therefore, the whole church assembles and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are mad?
But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all,
the secrets of his heart are disclosed; and so, falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you.
What then, brethren? When you come together, each one has a hymn, a lesson, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification.
If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn; and let one interpret.
But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silence in church and speak to himself and to God.
Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said.
If a revelation is made to another sitting by, let the first be silent.
For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged;
and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.
For God is not a God of confusion but of peace.As in all the churches of the saints,
the women should keep silence in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be subordinate, as even the law says.
If there is anything they desire to know, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.
What! Did the word of God originate with you, or are you the only ones it has reached?
If any one thinks that he is a prophet, or spiritual, he should acknowledge that what I am writing to you is a command of the Lord.
If any one does not recognize this, he is not recognized.
So, my brethren, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues;
but all things should be done decently and in order.