Abraham took another wife, whose name was Ketu′rah.
She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Mid′ian, Ishbak, and Shuah.
Jokshan was the father of Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshu′rim, Letu′shim, and Le-um′mim.
The sons of Mid′ian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abi′da, and Elda′ah. All these were the children of Ketu′rah.
Abraham gave all he had to Isaac.
But to the sons of his concubines Abraham gave gifts, and while he was still living he sent them away from his son Isaac, eastward to the east country.
These are the days of the years of Abraham’s life, a hundred and seventy-five years.
Abraham breathed his last and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years, and was gathered to his people.
Isaac and Ish′mael his sons buried him in the cave of Mach-pe′lah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, east of Mamre,
the field which Abraham purchased from the Hittites. There Abraham was buried, with Sarah his wife.
After the death of Abraham God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac dwelt at Beer-la′hai-roi.
These are the descendants of Ish′mael, Abraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s maid, bore to Abraham.
These are the names of the sons of Ish′mael, named in the order of their birth: Neba′ioth, the first-born of Ish′mael; and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
Mishma, Dumah, Massa,
Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Ked′emah.
These are the sons of Ish′mael and these are their names, by their villages and by their encampments, twelve princes according to their tribes.
(These are the years of the life of Ish′mael, a hundred and thirty-seven years; he breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his kindred.)
They dwelt from Hav′ilah to Shur, which is opposite Egypt in the direction of Assyria; he settled over against all his people.
These are the descendants of Isaac, Abraham’s son: Abraham was the father of Isaac,
and Isaac was forty years old when he took to wife Rebekah, the daughter of Bethu′el the Aramean of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean.
And Isaac prayed to the Lord for his wife, because she was barren; and the Lord granted his prayer, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
The children struggled together within her; and she said, “If it is thus, why do I live?” So she went to inquire of the Lord.
And the Lord said to her,“Two nations are in your womb,    and two peoples, born of you, shall be divided;the one shall be stronger than the other,    the elder shall serve the younger.”
When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.
The first came forth red, all his body like a hairy mantle; so they called his name Esau.
Afterward his brother came forth, and his hand had taken hold of Esau’s heel; so his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.
When the boys grew up, Esau was a skilful hunter, a man of the field, while Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents.
Isaac loved Esau, because he ate of his game; but Rebekah loved Jacob.
Once when Jacob was boiling pottage, Esau came in from the field, and he was famished.
And Esau said to Jacob, “Let me eat some of that red pottage, for I am famished!” (Therefore his name was called Edom.)
Jacob said, “First sell me your birthright.”
Esau said, “I am about to die; of what use is a birthright to me?”
Jacob said, “Swear to me first.” So he swore to him, and sold his birthright to Jacob.
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils, and he ate and drank, and rose and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright.