Now Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to visit the women of the land;
and when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, he seized her and lay with her and humbled her.
And his soul was drawn to Dinah the daughter of Jacob; he loved the maiden and spoke tenderly to her.
So Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, “Get me this maiden for my wife.”
Now Jacob heard that he had defiled his daughter Dinah; but his sons were with his cattle in the field, so Jacob held his peace until they came.
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him.
The sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard of it; and the men were indignant and very angry, because he had wrought folly in Israel by lying with Jacob’s daughter, for such a thing ought not to be done.
But Hamor spoke with them, saying, “The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter; I pray you, give her to him in marriage.
Make marriages with us; give your daughters to us, and take our daughters for yourselves.
You shall dwell with us; and the land shall be open to you; dwell and trade in it, and get property in it.”
Shechem also said to her father and to her brothers, “Let me find favor in your eyes, and whatever you say to me I will give.
Ask of me ever so much as marriage present and gift, and I will give according as you say to me; only give me the maiden to be my wife.”
The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor deceitfully, because he had defiled their sister Dinah.
They said to them, “We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us.
Only on this condition will we consent to you: that you will become as we are and every male of you be circumcised.
Then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to ourselves, and we will dwell with you and become one people.
But if you will not listen to us and be circumcised, then we will take our daughter, and we will be gone.”
Their words pleased Hamor and Hamor’s son Shechem.
And the young man did not delay to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob’s daughter. Now he was the most honored of all his family.
So Hamor and his son Shechem came to the gate of their city and spoke to the men of their city, saying,
“These men are friendly with us; let them dwell in the land and trade in it, for behold, the land is large enough for them; let us take their daughters in marriage, and let us give them our daughters.
Only on this condition will the men agree to dwell with us, to become one people: that every male among us be circumcised as they are circumcised.
Will not their cattle, their property and all their beasts be ours? Only let us agree with them, and they will dwell with us.”
And all who went out of the gate of his city hearkened to Hamor and his son Shechem; and every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city.
On the third day, when they were sore, two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brothers, took their swords and came upon the city unawares, and killed all the males.
They slew Hamor and his son Shechem with the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem’s house, and went away.
And the sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and plundered the city, because their sister had been defiled;
they took their flocks and their herds, their asses, and whatever was in the city and in the field;
all their wealth, all their little ones and their wives, all that was in the houses, they captured and made their prey.
Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, “You have brought trouble on me by making me odious to the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites and the Per′izzites; my numbers are few, and if they gather themselves against me and attack me, I shall be destroyed, both I and my household.”
But they said, “Should he treat our sister as a harlot?”