When Jacob learned that there was grain in Egypt, he said to his sons, “Why do you look at one another?”
And he said, “Behold, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down and buy grain for us there, that we may live, and not die.”
So ten of Joseph’s brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt.
But Jacob did not send Benjamin, Joseph’s brother, with his brothers, for he feared that harm might befall him.
Thus the sons of Israel came to buy among the others who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
Now Joseph was governor over the land; he it was who sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph’s brothers came, and bowed themselves before him with their faces to the ground.
Joseph saw his brothers, and knew them, but he treated them like strangers and spoke roughly to them. “Where do you come from?” he said. They said, “From the land of Canaan, to buy food.”
Thus Joseph knew his brothers, but they did not know him.
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he had dreamed of them; and he said to them, “You are spies, you have come to see the weakness of the land.”
They said to him, “No, my lord, but to buy food have your servants come.
We are all sons of one man, we are honest men, your servants are not spies.”
He said to them, “No, it is the weakness of the land that you have come to see.”
And they said, “We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is no more.”
But Joseph said to them, “It is as I said to you, you are spies.
By this you shall be tested: by the life of Pharaoh, you shall not go from this place unless your youngest brother comes here.
Send one of you, and let him bring your brother, while you remain in prison, that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in you; or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies.”
And he put them all together in prison for three days.
On the third day Joseph said to them, “Do this and you will live, for I fear God:
if you are honest men, let one of your brothers remain confined in your prison, and let the rest go and carry grain for the famine of your households,
and bring your youngest brother to me; so your words will be verified, and you shall not die.” And they did so.
Then they said to one another, “In truth we are guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the distress of his soul, when he besought us and we would not listen; therefore is this distress come upon us.”
And Reuben answered them, “Did I not tell you not to sin against the lad? But you would not listen. So now there comes a reckoning for his blood.”
They did not know that Joseph understood them, for there was an interpreter between them.
Then he turned away from them and wept; and he returned to them and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes.
And Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain, and to replace every man’s money in his sack, and to give them provisions for the journey. This was done for them.
Then they loaded their asses with their grain, and departed.
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender at the lodging place, he saw his money in the mouth of his sack;
and he said to his brothers, “My money has been put back; here it is in the mouth of my sack!” At this their hearts failed them, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, “What is this that God has done to us?”
When they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan, they told him all that had befallen them, saying,
“The man, the lord of the land, spoke roughly to us, and took us to be spies of the land.
But we said to him, ‘We are honest men, we are not spies;
we are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is no more, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.’
Then the man, the lord of the land, said to us, ‘By this I shall know that you are honest men: leave one of your brothers with me, and take grain for the famine of your households, and go your way.
Bring your youngest brother to me; then I shall know that you are not spies but honest men, and I will deliver to you your brother, and you shall trade in the land.’”
As they emptied their sacks, behold, every man’s bundle of money was in his sack; and when they and their father saw their bundles of money, they were dismayed.
And Jacob their father said to them, “You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more, and now you would take Benjamin; all this has come upon me.”
Then Reuben said to his father, “Slay my two sons if I do not bring him back to you; put him in my hands, and I will bring him back to you.”
But he said, “My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he only is left. If harm should befall him on the journey that you are to make, you would bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol.”