The Lord said to Moses,
“Command the people of Israel, and say to them, When you enter the land of Canaan (this is the land that shall fall to you for an inheritance, the land of Canaan in its full extent),
your south side shall be from the wilderness of Zin along the side of Edom, and your southern boundary shall be from the end of the Salt Sea on the east;
and your boundary shall turn south of the ascent of Akrab′bim, and cross to Zin, and its end shall be south of Ka′desh-bar′nea; then it shall go on to Ha′zar-ad′dar, and pass along to Azmon;
and the boundary shall turn from Azmon to the Brook of Egypt, and its termination shall be at the sea.
“For the western boundary, you shall have the Great Sea and its coast; this shall be your western boundary.
“This shall be your northern boundary: from the Great Sea you shall mark out your line to Mount Hor;
from Mount Hor you shall mark it out to the entrance of Hamath, and the end of the boundary shall be at Zedad;
then the boundary shall extend to Ziphron, and its end shall be at Hazar-enan; this shall be your northern boundary.
“You shall mark out your eastern boundary from Hazar-enan to Shepham;
and the boundary shall go down from Shepham to Riblah on the east side of A′in; and the boundary shall go down, and reach to the shoulder of the sea of Chin′nereth on the east;
and the boundary shall go down to the Jordan, and its end shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land with its boundaries all round.”
Moses commanded the people of Israel, saying, “This is the land which you shall inherit by lot, which the Lord has commanded to give to the nine tribes and to the half-tribe;
for the tribe of the sons of Reuben by fathers’ houses and the tribe of the sons of Gad by their fathers’ houses have received their inheritance, and also the half-tribe of Manas′seh;
the two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan at Jericho eastward, toward the sunrise.”
The Lord said to Moses,
“These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Elea′zar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun.
You shall take one leader of every tribe, to divide the land for inheritance.
These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephun′neh.
Of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, Shemu′el the son of Ammi′hud.
Of the tribe of Benjamin, Eli′dad the son of Chislon.
Of the tribe of the sons of Dan a leader, Bukki the son of Jogli.
Of the sons of Joseph: of the tribe of the sons of Manas′seh a leader, Han′niel the son of Ephod.
And of the tribe of the sons of E′phraim a leader, Kemu′el the son of Shiphtan.
Of the tribe of the sons of Zeb′ulun a leader, Eli-za′phan the son of Parnach.
Of the tribe of the sons of Is′sachar a leader, Pal′tiel the son of Azzan.
And of the tribe of the sons of Asher a leader, Ahi′hud the son of Shelo′mi.
Of the tribe of the sons of Naph′tali a leader, Pedah′el the son of Ammi′hud.
These are the men whom the Lord commanded to divide the inheritance for the people of Israel in the land of Canaan.”